Physician: So you're here to talk about your eating habits and how to change them and make them better. Do you have any other concerns for today?

Patient: Not particularly, no.

Physician: Okay. Let me know if you do, if you remember anything as we're talking.

...

Physician: So would you like to discuss making a change?

Patient: Please.

Physician: Okay, great. Absolutely. So I have a couple of ideas. You mentioned that you were financially stable. Did you say if you had insurance?

Patient: I do.

Physician: Okay, that's good. Because one of my suggestions would be to have you talk to a registered dietician.

Patient: Oh, okay.

Physician: And insurance should cover about five visits or even more, and he or she can give you a good basis of different foods that are good for you and how to change your eating habits to make it more healthy.

Patient: That sounds like a good idea.

Physician: So that's something you'd be willing to start up with?

Patient: I'd like to do that as soon as possible.

...

Physician: Now, about teaching you how to cook, is there any kind of, do you know of any kind of community resources in your area where they can do classes or little tutorials on cooking?

Patient: Yeah, it's funny that you mention that, because we get every fall and every spring something in the mail for the adult education, and at the high school in our area, they're doing a basic cooking class. I noticed that was on there.

Physician: Oh, great. How convenient. That's great.

Patient: And it's starting in about two weeks, I'd say.

Physician: Oh, wonderful. So is that something you'd be willing to enroll in?

Patient: Actually, I was thinking, and yes, that sounds like something I would do. Now that we're talking about it, I'm starting to think. 

...

Physician: But you're looking into how to cook, so maybe that's just a default way to make friends.

Patient: That's a good idea. I like that. 

Physician: That's great. I'm glad.

Patient: Thank you.

...

Physician: Do you have any other concerns for us today?

Patient: No. You've got me thinking about all these new ideas about how I can make myself eat well, and I'm excited about it. That's really why I'm here.

Physician: Well, I'm glad. I'm really glad that you're motivated to take the first step in eating healthfully, and that'll be really good for you, I'm sure.