Physician: So you're here to talk about how you can change that to make it a little bit more healthier for you.

Patient: That's exactly why I came.

Physician: Okay, good. So would you like to discuss making a change?

Patient: Please.

Physician: Okay, great. Absolutely. So I have a couple of ideas. You mentioned that you were financially stable. Did you say if you had insurance?

Patient: I do.

Physician: Okay, that's good. Because one of my suggestions would be to have you talk to a registered dietician.

Patient: Oh, okay.

Physician: And insurance should cover about five visits or even more, and he or she can give you a good basis of different foods that are good for you and how to change your eating habits to make it more healthy.

Patient: That sounds like a good idea.

Physician: So that's something you'd be willing to start up with?

Patient: I'd like to do that as soon as possible.

Physician: Now, about teaching you how to cook, is there any kind of, do you know of any kind of community resources in your area where they can do classes or little tutorials on cooking?

Patient: Yeah, it's funny that you mention that, because we get every fall and every spring something in the mail for the adult education, and at the high school in our area, they're doing a basic cooking class. I noticed that was on there.

Physician: Oh, great. How convenient. That's great.

Patient: And it's starting in about two weeks, I'd say.

Physician: Oh, wonderful. So is that something you'd be willing to enroll in?

Patient: Actually, I was thinking, and yes, that sounds like something I would do. Now that we're talking about it, I'm starting to think.

Physician: And that would also be a really good way for you to meet people and to get more integrated into your community, since you said you're kind of lonely out in the rural Burlington area.

Patient: Yeah, I could try to do that. I don't generally go looking to make friends.

Physician: But you're looking into how to cook, so maybe that's just a default way to make friends.

Patient: That's a good idea. I like that.

Physician: Okay. So we'll establish the appointment for the dietician.

Patient: Okay.

Physician: And this is something that I'd like to work with you together. We could make the appointment together. And then we can also have you make an appointment to see me and Dr. Smith in two weeks to see how, if you had the first appointment, how that went.

Physician: So, for example, you eat cereal with whole milk. Like, have you thought about trying 1% or 2% milk just to bring down the fat content a bit?

Patient: That's a good idea. I hadn't thought of it.

Physician: Okay. Well, there's something you can do right now before seeing a dietician.

Physician: Do you have any other concerns for us today?

Patient: No. You've got me thinking about all these new ideas about how I can make myself eat well, and I'm excited about it. That's really why I'm here.

Physician: Well, I'm glad. I'm really glad that you're motivated to take the first step in eating healthfully, and that'll be really good for you, I'm sure.