Physician: Why is that?

Physician: Which antidepressant?

Physician: And how many milligrams?

Physician: And you're taking it every day?

Physician: And is it helping?

Physician: Do you have any other health concerns? Diabetes? No. High blood pressure? No. High cholesterol? Cancer?

Physician: Any hospitalizations or surgeries?

Physician: And from what did she die?

Physician: Do you feel tired?

Physician: And do you have any brothers and sisters?

Physician: Just some more questions to get a better idea of who you are. Okay. Have you ever used any tobacco products, or do you still use them now?

Physician: And how much do you drink?

Physician: And has alcohol ever been a problem for you?

Physician: Tell me a little bit more about your wife. When did you break up?

Physician: And you got full custody of your daughter?

Physician: And so now with your daughter gone, are you living with anyone?

Physician: What's your cat's name?

Physician: And another question about, so you said you don't drink, and you don't smoke, which is any recreational drugs?

Physician: And so you said that you lived alone. Where do you live?

Physician: And is that a rural area? I'm not really familiar with it.

Physician: And what do you do for a living?

Physician: You must have a really nice yard yourself.

Physician: And so you mentioned your dad. Where does he live?

Physician: So the Zoloft is making you feel better, but when you are feeling kind of down, do you feel like you have a social support network?

Physician: So have you thought about asking her for her old recipes or anything like that?

Physician: But in the meantime, I could certainly help you out. So tell me a little bit more about the nutrition. You eat beef jerky and cereal, and what kind of milk do you use?

Physician: Did you say if you had insurance?

Physician: And do you know how to cook?

Physician: Now, about teaching you how to cook, is there any kind of, do you know of any kind of community resources in your area where they can do classes or little tutorials on cooking?

Physician: So is that something you'd be willing to enroll in?

Physician: And that would also be a really good way for you to meet people and to get more integrated into your community, since you said you're kind of lonely out in the rural Burlington area.

Physician: So we'll establish the appointment for the dietician.

Physician: And this is something that I'd like to work with you together. We could make the appointment together. And then we can also have you make an appointment to see me and Dr. Smith in two weeks to see how, if you had the first appointment, how that went.

Physician: But I really want you to feel like you can contact the office if you have any questions about nutrition or what you should be eating.

Physician: And Mr. Jones, you talked about the community health class, the adult education at the high school. And that should start up in two weeks, you said?

Physician: So, for example, you eat cereal with whole milk. Like, have you thought about trying 1% or 2% milk just to bring down the fat content a bit?

Physician: Do you have any other concerns for us today?