Physician: "What brings you in today?"

Patient: "I'm concerned about what I've been eating."

Physician: "Why is that?"

Patient: "My daughter, who primarily made the food at our house, has left for college recently. So I'm left to myself to prepare the food, and I'm not that knowledgeable."

Physician: "Is she entering her first year?"

Patient: "She is."

Physician: "Where is she going to school?"

Patient: "She's at Michigan State University."

Physician: "Nice. Cool. That's great. Thank you. Good for her. All right. So what are you eating these days, then?"

Patient: "At this point, I've eaten everything that she left in the refrigerator. She would make food, prepare it, and put it in Tupperware containers and have nice things in the cupboard and so on. And I've pretty much gone through all that in the last couple of weeks. And now I'm eating cereal almost every meal."

Physician: "Okay."

Patient: "I eat beef jerky and chips that I get at the gas station. And occasionally I'll eat out with the guys I work with, but mostly not."

Physician: "Okay. And what did she use to cook for you?"

Patient: "Well, she prepared a lot of health-conscious foods, like bean salad with red pepper and corn and ginger. She kept fresh fruit salad that she would make every week. We'd have a big Tupperware container of fresh fruit salad. She kept rice, brown rice, cold brown rice, and various fruits and vegetables."

Physician: "Okay. So that's pretty different than Cocoa Puffs and beef jerky, huh?"

Patient: "True enough."

Physician: "Okay. Yes. All right. So you're here to talk about your eating habits and how to change them and make them better. Do you have any other concerns for today?"

Patient: "Not particularly, no."

Physician: "Okay. Let me know if you do, if you remember anything as we're talking."

Patient: "Okay."

Physician: "So before I continue with talking about food and everything, why don't you tell me a little bit about yourself? How is your health?"

Patient: "My health is quite good. I did have a little bit of problem with irritability and sleeping."

Physician: "Okay."

Patient: "And about three or four months ago I was put on an antidepressant, which seems to be helping quite a lot."

Physician: "Okay. Which antidepressant?"

Patient: "It's Zoloft."

Physician: "And how many milligrams?"

Patient: "It's 10 milligrams a day."

Physician: "Okay. And you're taking it every day?"

Patient: "Yes, I am."

Physician: "And is it helping?"

Patient: "I'm much more relaxed. I'm sleeping better. I can really feel the difference."

Physician: "Okay. Great. Well, that's wonderful. I'm glad to hear that."

Patient: "Thank you."

Physician: "That's good. Do you have any other health concerns? Diabetes? No. High blood pressure? No. High cholesterol? Cancer?"

Patient: "No."

Physician: "Any hospitalizations or surgeries?"

Patient: "No."

Physician: "Okay. How about your family? Are your parents still alive?"

Patient: "My father is alive. My mother died about three years ago."

Physician: "Oh, I'm sorry to hear that."

Patient: "Yes, thank you."

Physician: "And from what did she die?"

Patient: "She had pneumonia at the end of her life. She also had type 2 diabetes."

Physician: "Okay. And you said your father is still alive?"

Patient: "Yes, he is."

Physician: "Okay. And how is his health?"

Patient: "His health is quite good. He's quite fit and everything, although taking this antidepressant that I've been taking, I now see that he probably could use it, too, because he seems to act like I used to feel sort of irritable a lot, and he is always tired."

Physician: "Do you feel tired?"

Patient: "I feel much more energized now."

Physician: "Okay. That's great. That's really good."

Patient: "Thank you."

Physician: "And do you have any brothers and sisters?"

Patient: "I do not."

Physician: "Okay. Just some more questions to get a better idea of who you are. Okay. Have you ever used any tobacco products, or do you still use them now?"

Patient: "No, I don't, and I never have, no."

Physician: "Oh, well, great. And how much do you drink?"

Patient: "I don't drink, actually."

Physician: "Okay. And has alcohol ever been a problem for you?"

Patient: "No, it's never been a problem. I used to drink a little bit, and my wife and I broke up a while back, and she was quite an alcoholic, and so I thought, I'm going to raise my daughter without alcohol being an issue."

Physician: "That's great. That's really good. Tell me a little bit more about your wife. When did you break up?"

Patient: "It was about five to six years ago. We divorced."

Physician: "And you got full custody of your daughter?"

Patient: "That's right. I did, yes."

Physician: "Okay. And so now with your daughter gone, are you living with anyone?"

Patient: "No, no one lives. I just have our cat."

Physician: "Okay. What's your cat's name?"

Patient: "Smokey."

Physician: "Nice."

Patient: "Thank you."

Physician: "And another question about, so you said you don't drink, and you don't smoke, which is any recreational drugs?"

Patient: "No."

Physician: "Good. Okay. And so you said that you lived alone. Where do you live?"

Patient: "I live here in Burlington."

Physician: "Okay. And is that a rural area? I'm not really familiar with it."

Patient: "It's very much out in the country, yeah. It's a kind of a country, long, winding road that I live on. Mostly forest."

Physician: "Okay. And what do you do for a living?"

Patient: "I'm a landscaper. I plant trees and shrubs. I take care of trees and shrubs, and I do grass from the spring until the fall. I clean up people's yards. I prepare them."

Physician: "You must have a really nice yard yourself."

Patient: "It's simple, but nice, yes."

Physician: "Nice, nice. Okay. And so you mentioned your dad. Where does he live?"

Patient: "He lives about a mile and a half up the road from me."

Physician: "Okay. So the Zoloft is making you feel better, but when you are feeling kind of down, do you feel like you have a social support network?"

Patient: "Well, the guys I work with are really the guys who I know best, and we don't get together much after work occasionally. And I don't spend that much time with my father either. I'm really kind of a loner, I'd say."

Physician: "Okay. All right. Do you call your daughter once in a while at college?"

Patient: "I've spoken to her twice. She's called me. I don't feel like pestering her, and she sounds like she's having a good time, although it's just getting going."

Physician: "So have you thought about asking her for her old recipes or anything like that?"

Patient: "I've been thinking about that, but I just don't feel like calling her at college and asking her to tell me what to prepare for food."

Physician: "I can understand that."

Patient: "I'm going to be seeing her at Thanksgiving, and I'm planning on asking her some questions then."

Physician: "Good. All right. But in the meantime, I could certainly help you out. So tell me a little bit more about the nutrition. You eat beef jerky and cereal, and what kind of milk do you use?"

Patient: "I buy a gallon of whole milk at the gas station."

Physician: "Okay. And you used to eat really good things, and bean salads and ginger, and it sounds really good."

Patient: "True. It was very good."

Physician: "So you're here to talk about how you can change that to make it a little bit more healthier for you."

Patient: "That's exactly why I came."

Physician: "Okay, good. So would you like to discuss making a change?"

Patient: "Please."

Physician: "Okay, great. Absolutely. So I have a couple of ideas. You mentioned that you were financially stable. Did you say if you had insurance?"

Patient: "I do."

Physician: "Okay, that's good. Because one of my suggestions would be to have you talk to a registered dietician."

Patient: "Oh, okay."

Physician: "And insurance should cover about five visits or even more, and he or she can give you a good basis of different foods that are good for you and how to change your eating habits to make it more healthy."

Patient: "That sounds like a good idea."

Physician: "So that's something you'd be willing to start up with?"

Patient: "I'd like to do that as soon as possible."

Physician: "Okay, that's great. Good. So we could, after this, we could make an appointment with a dietician that you can go talk to about that. Also, I mean, a dietician could tell you what kind of foods you should and shouldn't eat, but he or she can't really teach you how to cook. Do you know how to cook?"

Patient: "You know, not much at all. I buy beef occasionally, whatever's on sale, and I'll just put it in my Fry Daddy or in a skillet, and it doesn't taste like anything. The meat my daughter made was usually nice chicken breasts or some nice piece of meat, but it doesn't taste like what she was preparing."

Physician: "All right. I'm sure the dietician won't recommend a Fry Daddy, but I'm sure she can give you good recommendations of ways to prepare food that would be healthier for you."

Patient: "Oh, good."

Physician: "Now, about teaching you how to cook, is there any kind of, do you know of any kind of community resources in your area where they can do classes or little tutorials on cooking?"

Patient: "Yeah, it's funny that you mention that, because we get every fall and every spring something in the mail for the adult education, and at the high school in our area, they're doing a basic cooking class. I noticed that was on there."

Physician: "Oh, great. How convenient. That's great."

Patient: "And it's starting in about two weeks, I'd say."

Physician: "Oh, wonderful. So is that something you'd be willing to enroll in?"

Patient: "Actually, I was thinking, and yes, that sounds like something I would do. Now that we're talking about it, I'm starting to think."

Physician: "And that would also be a really good way for you to meet people and to get more integrated into your community, since you said you're kind of lonely out in the rural Burlington area."

Patient: "Yeah, I could try to do that. I don't generally go looking to make friends."

Physician: "Right."

Patient: "But maybe I would."

Physician: "But you're looking into how to cook, so maybe that's just a default way to make friends."

Patient: "That's a good idea. I like that."

Physician: "That's great. I'm glad."

Patient: "Thank you."

Physician: "Okay. So we'll establish the appointment for the dietician."

Patient: "Okay."

Physician: "And this is something that I'd like to work with you together. We could make the appointment together. And then we can also have you make an appointment to see me and Dr. Smith in two weeks to see how, if you had the first appointment, how that went."

Patient: "Okay."

Physician: "And also talk about maybe you've already enrolled in the class and how that's coming along."

Patient: "Excellent."

Physician: "But I really want you to feel like you can contact the office if you have any questions about nutrition or what you should be eating."

Patient: "Very good. Thank you."

Physician: "Okay. Great. And Mr. Jones, you talked about the community health class, the adult education at the high school. And that should start up in two weeks, you said?"

Patient: "Yes."

Physician: "Okay. Good. And what I can do is go talk to Dr. Smith and come back. And I can bring in a contract for you to sign that just says that you'll be willing to start up this new nutritional movement for you to feel better about yourself."

Patient: "Good."

Physician: "And you could sign that, and that could just make it more official, and you could feel more motivated to do it, too."

Patient: "Very good. I'd be happy to sign that. I'm feeling pretty motivated. Great. This conversation is getting me excited."

Physician: "Oh, I'm good. I'm glad. I'm glad. And also, I could bring in a calendar for you to fill out and just kind of keep a food journal to see what kind of foods you're eating and how you can make changes right now, even."

Patient: "Okay."

Physician: "So, for example, you eat cereal with whole milk. Like, have you thought about trying 1% or 2% milk just to bring down the fat content a bit?"

Patient: "That's a good idea. I hadn't thought of it."

Physician: "Okay. Well, there's something you can do right now before seeing a dietician."

Patient: "Okay."

Physician: "Do you have any other concerns for us today?"

Patient: "No. You've got me thinking about all these new ideas about how I can make myself eat well, and I'm excited about it. That's really why I'm here."

Physician: "Well, I'm glad. I'm really glad that you're motivated to take the first step in eating healthfully, and that'll be really good for you, I'm sure."

Patient: "Good. Thank you."

Physician: "So I'm going to go talk to Dr. Smith and get you that paperwork, and you just stay right here, and I'll come back."

Patient: "Very good."

Physician: "All right? Very nice talking to you, Mr. Jones."

Patient: "Nice to talk to you. Thank you."

Physician: "Thank you."