Physician: "Hey, Kevin. How's it going? It's really good to see you. You know, I can't believe it's been six months that have gone by already since your last visit."

Physician: "That's fantastic. Congratulations."

Physician: "I've known you a long time, Kevin, so I have no doubt you're going to be a great dad. So that's just great news. Please make sure you give my congratulations to your wife."

Physician: "Before Kathy comes in to do your prophy, I wanted to just update your history. Have you been having any problems since you were last here for your last visit?"

Physician: "Okay. And how often have you been brushing?"

Physician: "Oh, right. It sounds like you're doing a pretty good job, pretty reasonable job with your oral hygiene. We'll have to work on the flossing a little bit, but not bad. How about your general health? Have there been any changes in your health since you were last here?"

Physician: "Okay. No other problems besides that?"

Physician: "Okay. Yeah, that's important, especially if you're having symptoms like shortness of breath."

Physician: "Okay, great. Any changes in your alcohol intake?"

Physician: "That's great. That's fantastic."

Physician: "Well, that's great. And your wife is on you to quit also?"

Physician: "Okay. Well, actually, that's a really good thing. You know, quitting smoking is probably the best thing you could do for your health."

Physician: "You're probably already aware that it's a risk factor for a lot of significant medical problems, like lung disease, heart attack, stroke, cancer. The shortness of breath and the bronchitis may be related to the smoking, but you probably should definitely have your doctor check that to make sure."

Physician: "Then there's the secondhand effects of smoking that can be, you know, the secondhand smoke can be harmful to the people around you. And for your baby, that could cause some problems too, could cause some, you know, breathing problems, ear infections, things like that. And, you know, you talked about staining of your teeth. There's other harmful effects of smoking in the mouth. Gum disease, oral cancer puts you at risk for that. It can affect your sense of taste. So when you quit, you know, you get a lot of benefits. You get short-term benefits. You'll probably have a lot more energy. You'll probably be able to breathe better. And then over time, you know, you reduce your risk for all the significant medical problems that, you know, we just talked about."

Physician: "Do you, do you, have you ever tried to quit before?"

Physician: "Why do you think that happened?"

Physician: "Okay, all right. So do you think you would want to quit, do you think?"

Physician: "Okay, all right. Have you, you said you tried to quit cold turkey in the past. Have you ever used any of the tobacco cessation products? Are you aware of any of those?"

Physician: "Yeah, you're probably referring to a new medication called Cantix. They've been advertising that a lot. And that has been shown to be very effective for people who are trying to quit."

Physician: "Zyban's another medication that's available. And then there's the, what are called the nicotine replacement products, like the patch, the gum, the lozenges. So those are all the different methods that are currently out there."

Physician: "It's personal preference, mostly. The products work a little bit differently, and it depends on how you tolerate a particular product. The patch, for example, it's pretty easy to use. You just put it on your arm once in the morning, and it releases a steady dose of nicotine throughout the day. It's designed to be a step-down method, so you start with a higher dose patch. And then over the course of several weeks, usually 12 weeks, you use patches of, you know, tapering doses, lesser strength, until you overcome your cravings for the nicotine. With the gum and the lozenges, you have to remember to keep using those throughout the day when you get cravings. And a lot of people like to have something in their mouth, something to suck on or something to chew, so that, you know, people find that helpful. And then with the medications like the Cantix and the Zyban, you usually just take those twice a day, once in the morning and once in the evening."

Physician: "Yeah, they're pretty safe. There are some side effects. Usually they're minor, and usually people tolerate them pretty well. For instance, with the patch, it's not uncommon to get some redness or itchiness at the site where the patch is, but that's easily remedied by changing the location of the patch every day, change it to the other arm, so that minimizes that problem. The gum and the lozenge, those can cause headaches. They can cause nausea, upset stomach, some gas. Cantix can have similar side effects. And sometimes with the medications, you can get abnormal dreams and sleep disturbances, but typically all of those side effects don't last for all of those."

Physician: "Some insurance plans do cover the cost of the medications and even the nicotine replacement products. Others don't. It's pretty variable, so you have to check with your specific insurance company. Generally speaking, for about a 12-week course of therapy, which is what's usually recommended, it's around $500, give or take. So actually, I don't think that's too bad considering the cost of cigarettes over the long term, and then obviously the health care costs associated with smoking throughout your lifetime."

Physician: "Okay, all right. Have you ever thought about what triggers your desire to smoke? Like, when you get a craving, when does that typically happen?"

Physician: "Okay, yeah, that's pretty common."

Physician: "Sometimes it's actually helpful to keep a log of when you smoke and when you get your cravings. You know, we talked about all the different medications, but it's important to keep in mind that none of those are magic bullets. To really be successful with a quit attempt, you have to really be ready. It sounds like you might be at that point."

Physician: "Okay. Well, cravings usually last about maybe three to five minutes."

Physician: "So the whole key to success is to come up with distractions. What am I going to do in that time frame when I get that craving? So as I was listening to what triggers your need for cigarettes, you said you're driving."

Physician: "So if you're in the car driving, turn the radio on. Sing along with the radio. That's a distraction. Okay. You might consider carpooling with someone who doesn't smoke, and that would be a deterrent from smoking."

Physician: "Keep a water bottle maybe with you that has a straw in it, something to put in your mouth as a distraction. When you're at work, maybe keep some healthy snacks close by, like carrot sticks, celery sticks, something that's healthy. If you're craving a cigarette after you eat, brush your teeth right away, right after the meal. So that will make your mouth feel nice and fresh and be another deterrent from smoking. You might go for a walk, take a jog. The whole idea is to replace an unhealthy habit with a healthy habit. It's sort of like a lifestyle change."

Physician: "And then also, very importantly, you have to have a support system in place, family, friends, coworkers. You've got to get people on board to help you because typically you can't do this alone."

Physician: "Okay. Well, what might help, what usually helps people, is let other people know up front that you're trying to quit and you need their support. You're going to be irritable, you're going to be moody, especially during the first couple of weeks when your body's going through the nicotine withdrawal. So prepare people for that. You may be avoiding social situations where you're around other smokers. Let people know that in advance, that it's nothing personal. You're just trying to avoid temptation until you get through this critical period as your body's going through that withdrawal. So those are some suggestions."

Physician: "Okay. Well, you know, you shouldn't really be too hard on yourself because typically people who try to quit smoking are not successful on their first attempt. It often takes them several attempts before they finally do quit. The important thing is that you've tried, and it sounds like you're still really interested, that you're very motivated. Do you think at this point that you're willing to set an actual quit date, say, within the next month?"

Physician: "Okay. So why don't we try to come up with a quit date? You said your wife doesn't smoke, so I would suggest trying to quit over a weekend when you're away from work and you're away from people who are smoking around you. How does that sound?"

Physician: "Okay. That's great because that would give you some time to prepare."

Physician: "What you need to do is clean out your ashtrays at home, at work, in the car. Clean out the car so that it smells nice and fresh."

Physician: "Get rid of cigarette lighters. Let people know, like we talked about, that you're trying to quit. That's really critical. There's a pamphlet here that is helpful for a lot of people that describes a lot of the things that we talked about. We were talking about keeping a journal, keeping a log, when you get your cravings. It talks about the various nicotine replacement products and the medications and coping mechanisms like we were discussing. How will I deal with these triggers? There's a little button here that you can wear that says, Be kind, I'm quitting."

Physician: "That tells everybody up front that I'm going through this potentially difficult time. Be nice to me."

Physician: "Okay, great. Well, if you do have any questions after you go through the material, please make sure to give me a call."

Physician: "Either myself or anyone in the office will certainly be willing to help you in whatever way we can. If you decide you want to go with one of the medications that we talked about, the Cantix or the Zyban, those do require a prescription. I'll be happy to write a prescription for you and provide any additional information about the products if you feel like you need it."

Physician: "Okay, all right. So then what I'll do is I'll plan on calling you, say, within a couple of days."

Physician: "After your actual quit date, which you said is going to be two weeks from this Saturday. From this Saturday."

Physician: "All right, great. Unless I hear from you before then, if you have any questions. Sure, sure. As we talked about. Does that sound okay?"

Physician: "All right, all right, terrific. Dorothy should be in shortly to do your prophy, and maybe, hopefully, this will be the last time she's removing tobacco stains from your teeth."

Physician: "Okay. That would be great. Terrific. So then I'll see you at the end of the prophy visit to check your mouth."