Physician: "Well, actually, that's a really good thing. You know, quitting smoking is probably the best thing you could do for your health."
Patient: "Yeah."
Physician: "You're probably already aware that it's a risk factor for a lot of significant medical problems, like lung disease, heart attack, stroke, cancer. The shortness of breath and the bronchitis may be related to the smoking, but you probably should definitely have your doctor check that to make sure."
Patient: "Yeah."
Physician: "Then there's the secondhand effects of smoking that can be, you know, the secondhand smoke can be harmful to the people around you. And for your baby, that could cause some problems too, could cause some, you know, breathing problems, ear infections, things like that. And, you know, you talked about staining of your teeth. There's other harmful effects of smoking in the mouth. Gum disease, oral cancer puts you at risk for that. It can affect your sense of taste. So when you quit, you know, you get a lot of benefits. You get short-term benefits. You'll probably have a lot more energy. You'll probably be able to breathe better. And then over time, you know, you reduce your risk for all the significant medical problems that, you know, we just talked about."
Patient: "Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I mean, like you said, I'm really, I have to do this. I have to do this for the baby and for the family. So I want to, you know, I want to be there and not have this thing to deal with, you know, because I'm always thinking about it, so I'd like to do it."
Physician: "Do you, do you, have you ever tried to quit before?"
Patient: "Yeah, I tried a few times cold turkey, and that never lasted more than a week."
Physician: "Why do you think that happened?"
Patient: "I mean, a couple. I mean, job stress, you know, project deadlines, those sorts of things. I mean, you know, when you're going out with your friends. A lot of my friends and coworkers smoke, so it's kind of like a situational thing. Just light one up, and it's just really hard to resist that temptation."
Physician: "Okay, all right. So do you think you would want to quit, do you think?"
Patient: "Absolutely, yeah. I mean, like I said, this has got to happen before. I would really like to be rid of this within four months, you know, before the baby's born."
Physician: "Okay, all right. Have you, you said you tried to quit cold turkey in the past. Have you ever used any of the tobacco cessation products? Are you aware of any of those?"
Patient: "Yeah, I mean, I saw, I guess I saw, actually recently I saw an ad on TV for a pill, a new pill that's come out to help people quit. I'm not sure how it works or anything, but actually, do you know anything about that?"
Physician: "Yeah, you're probably referring to a new medication called Cantix. They've been advertising that a lot. And that has been shown to be very effective for people who are trying to quit."
Patient: "Okay."
Physician: "Zyban's another medication that's available. And then there's the, what are called the nicotine replacement products, like the patch, the gum, the lozenges. So those are all the different methods that are currently out there."
Patient: "Okay. Would you recommend any particular one?"
Physician: "It's personal preference, mostly. The products work a little bit differently, and it depends on how you tolerate a particular product. The patch, for example, it's pretty easy to use. You just put it on your arm once in the morning, and it releases a steady dose of nicotine throughout the day. It's designed to be a step-down method, so you start with a higher dose patch. And then over the course of several weeks, usually 12 weeks, you use patches of, you know, tapering doses, lesser strength, until you overcome your cravings for the nicotine. With the gum and the lozenges, you have to remember to keep using those throughout the day when you get cravings. And a lot of people like to have something in their mouth, something to suck on or something to chew, so that, you know, people find that helpful. And then with the medications like the Cantix and the Zyban, you usually just take those twice a day, once in the morning and once in the evening."
Patient: "Okay. Now, are all these pretty safe? I mean, you know, smoking is harmful, so these replacement things, is that safe?"
Physician: "Yeah, they're pretty safe. There are some side effects. Usually they're minor, and usually people tolerate them pretty well. For instance, with the patch, it's not uncommon to get some redness or itchiness at the site where the patch is, but that's easily remedied by changing the location of the patch every day, change it to the other arm, so that minimizes that problem. The gum and the lozenge, those can cause headaches. They can cause nausea, upset stomach, some gas. Cantix can have similar side effects. And sometimes with the medications, you can get abnormal dreams and sleep disturbances, but typically all of those side effects don't last for all of those."
Patient: "I feel like I could probably deal with that if this would get me too off the habit. Now, what are we talking in cost here? Are these, I mean, does insurance cover any of this, or what's the...?"
Physician: "Some insurance plans do cover the cost of the medications and even the nicotine replacement products. Others don't. It's pretty variable, so you have to check with your specific insurance company. Generally speaking, for about a 12-week course of therapy, which is what's usually recommended, it's around $500, give or take. So actually, I don't think that's too bad considering the cost of cigarettes over the long term, and then obviously the health care costs associated with smoking throughout your lifetime."
Patient: "Yeah, that could get pricey."
Physician: "Is it something you're thinking about seriously at this point?"
Patient: "Yeah, I feel like I'm ready at this point. I mean, I feel like if I don't do it now, it's never going to happen because the baby will come and I'll be even more stressed out, and I kind of want to get this out of the way before that happens."
Physician: "Okay, all right. Have you ever thought about what triggers your desire to smoke? Like, when you get a craving, when does that typically happen?"
Patient: "Well, like I said, stress, job stress, really brings them on. But usually, like in the mornings, like when I'm driving to work or to an appointment or something, I light one up after a meal with a cup of coffee. That sort of thing usually brings it on. And also, of course, like I said, being in the presence of people smoking, that's like..."
Physician: "Okay, yeah, that's pretty common."
Patient: "Yeah."
Physician: "Sometimes it's actually helpful to keep a log of when you smoke and when you get your cravings. You know, we talked about all the different medications, but it's important to keep in mind that none of those are magic bullets. To really be successful with a quit attempt, you have to really be ready. It sounds like you might be at that point."
Patient: "Definitely."
Physician: "You have to sort of anticipate in advance what your triggers are going to be, what's going to set off a craving for you, and sort of come up with a plan. Think about it in advance. What will I do when I get that craving for the cigarette? How will I deal with that?"
Patient: "Okay. Do you have any suggestions as to how to do that? Because I'm anticipating some really strong ones. Just from trying to quit in the past, they're real and they're there, and I really don't know what to do there."
Physician: "Okay. Well, cravings usually last about maybe three to five minutes."
Patient: "Okay."
Physician: "So the whole key to success is to come up with distractions. What am I going to do in that time frame when I get that craving? So as I was listening to what triggers your need for cigarettes, you said you're driving."
Patient: "Right."
Physician: "So if you're in the car driving, turn the radio on. Sing along with the radio. That's a distraction. Okay. You might consider carpooling with someone who doesn't smoke, and that would be a deterrent from smoking."
Patient: "Yeah."
Physician: "Keep a water bottle maybe with you that has a straw in it, something to put in your mouth as a distraction. When you're at work, maybe keep some healthy snacks close by, like carrot sticks, celery sticks, something that's healthy. If you're craving a cigarette after you eat, brush your teeth right away, right after the meal. So that will make your mouth feel nice and fresh and be another deterrent from smoking. You might go for a walk, take a jog. The whole idea is to replace an unhealthy habit with a healthy habit. It's sort of like a lifestyle change."
Patient: "Okay."
Physician: "And then also, very importantly, you have to have a support system in place, family, friends, coworkers. You've got to get people on board to help you because typically you can't do this alone."
Patient: "Sure, I've noticed."
Physician: "Do you have support?"
Patient: "Sure. I mean, you know, my wife doesn't smoke, so she's definitely going to be happy and helpful. The only thing, I mean, like I said, most of my friends and coworkers are smokers, but not all of them. So that might present a problem."
Physician: "Okay. Well, what might help, what usually helps people, is let other people know up front that you're trying to quit and you need their support. You're going to be irritable, you're going to be moody, especially during the first couple of weeks when your body's going through the nicotine withdrawal. So prepare people for that. You may be avoiding social situations where you're around other smokers. Let people know that in advance, that it's nothing personal. You're just trying to avoid temptation until you get through this critical period as your body's going through that withdrawal. So those are some suggestions."
Patient: "Yeah, I had not thought about that before when I tried, so that's why I would imagine it was pretty difficult."
Physician: "Okay. Well, you know, you shouldn't really be too hard on yourself because typically people who try to quit smoking are not successful on their first attempt. It often takes them several attempts before they finally do quit. The important thing is that you've tried, and it sounds like you're still really interested, that you're very motivated. Do you think at this point that you're willing to set an actual quit date, say, within the next month?"
Patient: "Yeah, the sooner the better, yeah."
Physician: "Okay. So why don't we try to come up with a quit date? You said your wife doesn't smoke, so I would suggest trying to quit over a weekend when you're away from work and you're away from people who are smoking around you. How does that sound?"
Patient: "That sounds great. I mean, I think a couple of weeks, two weeks from now."
Physician: "Would that be a reasonable time frame for you?"
Patient: "Yeah."
Physician: "Okay. That's great because that would give you some time to prepare."
Patient: "Okay."
Physician: "What you need to do is clean out your ashtrays at home, at work, in the car. Clean out the car so that it smells nice and fresh."
Patient: "Okay."
Physician: "Get rid of cigarette lighters. Let people know, like we talked about, that you're trying to quit. That's really critical. There's a pamphlet here that is helpful for a lot of people that describes a lot of the things that we talked about. We were talking about keeping a journal, keeping a log, when you get your cravings. It talks about the various nicotine replacement products and the medications and coping mechanisms like we were discussing. How will I deal with these triggers? There's a little button here that you can wear that says, Be kind, I'm quitting."
Patient: "Wow."
Physician: "That tells everybody up front that I'm going through this potentially difficult time. Be nice to me."
Patient: "Give me a break."
Physician: "Give me a break. Exactly."
Patient: "That's great. Okay."
Physician: "Any questions that you have at this point?"
Patient: "No. I mean, this is a new thing. Well, not that new, but I feel like I'm a lot more ready than I was last time. So this is good."
Physician: "Okay, great. Well, if you do have any questions after you go through the material, please make sure to give me a call."
Patient: "I will."
Physician: "Either myself or anyone in the office will certainly be willing to help you in whatever way we can. If you decide you want to go with one of the medications that we talked about, the Cantix or the Zyban, those do require a prescription. I'll be happy to write a prescription for you and provide any additional information about the products if you feel like you need it."
Patient: "Yeah, I mean, I'm never one to really jump at taking medications, so I think I'll probably try one of the over-the-counter things first."
Physician: "Okay, like the gum or the patch?"
Patient: "Right, right, and see how that goes."
Physician: "Okay, all right. So then what I'll do is I'll plan on calling you, say, within a couple of days."
Patient: "Okay."
Physician: "After your actual quit date, which you said is going to be two weeks from this Saturday. From this Saturday."
Patient: "Right."
Physician: "Okay."
Patient: "Make it a weekend."
Physician: "All right, great. Unless I hear from you before then, if you have any questions. Sure, sure. As we talked about. Does that sound okay?"
Patient: "Sounds great."
Physician: "All right, all right, terrific. Dorothy should be in shortly to do your prophy, and maybe, hopefully, this will be the last time she's removing tobacco stains from your teeth."
Patient: "Yeah, that would be great."
Physician: "Okay. That would be great. Terrific. So then I'll see you at the end of the prophy visit to check your mouth."
Patient: "Great, thank you so much. I really appreciate it."
Physician: "Sounds good."