Physician: "Okay. It sounds like you're doing a pretty good job, pretty reasonable job with your oral hygiene. We'll have to work on the flossing a little bit, but not bad. How about your general health? Have there been any changes in your health since you were last here?"

Physician: "Well, that's great. And your wife is on you to quit also?"

Physician: "Okay. Well, actually, that's a really good thing. You know, quitting smoking is probably the best thing you could do for your health."

Physician: "You're probably already aware that it's a risk factor for a lot of significant medical problems, like lung disease, heart attack, stroke, cancer. The shortness of breath and the bronchitis may be related to the smoking, but you probably should definitely have your doctor check that to make sure."

Physician: "Then there's the secondhand effects of smoking that can be, you know, the secondhand smoke can be harmful to the people around you. And for your baby, that could cause some problems too, could cause some, you know, breathing problems, ear infections, things like that. And, you know, you talked about staining of your teeth. There's other harmful effects of smoking in the mouth. Gum disease, oral cancer puts you at risk for that. It can affect your sense of taste. So when you quit, you know, you get a lot of benefits. You get short-term benefits. You'll probably have a lot more energy. You'll probably be able to breathe better. And then over time, you know, you reduce your risk for all the significant medical problems that, you know, we just talked about."

Physician: "Sometimes it's actually helpful to keep a log of when you smoke and when you get your cravings. You know, we talked about all the different medications, but it's important to keep in mind that none of those are magic bullets. To really be successful with a quit attempt, you have to really be ready. It sounds like you might be at that point."

Physician: "You have to sort of anticipate in advance what your triggers are going to be, what's going to set off a craving for you, and sort of come up with a plan. Think about it in advance. What will I do when I get that craving for the cigarette? How will I deal with that?"

Physician: "Okay. Well, cravings usually last about maybe three to five minutes."

Physician: "So the whole key to success is to come up with distractions. What am I going to do in that time frame when I get that craving? So as I was listening to what triggers your need for cigarettes, you said you're driving."

Physician: "So if you're in the car driving, turn the radio on. Sing along with the radio. That's a distraction. Okay. You might consider carpooling with someone who doesn't smoke, and that would be a deterrent from smoking."

Physician: "Keep a water bottle maybe with you that has a straw in it, something to put in your mouth as a distraction. When you're at work, maybe keep some healthy snacks close by, like carrot sticks, celery sticks, something that's healthy. If you're craving a cigarette after you eat, brush your teeth right away, right after the meal. So that will make your mouth feel nice and fresh and be another deterrent from smoking. You might go for a walk, take a jog. The whole idea is to replace an unhealthy habit with a healthy habit. It's sort of like a lifestyle change."

Physician: "And then also, very importantly, you have to have a support system in place, family, friends, coworkers. You've got to get people on board to help you because typically you can't do this alone."

Physician: "Well, what might help, what usually helps people, is let other people know up front that you're trying to quit and you need their support. You're going to be irritable, you're going to be moody, especially during the first couple of weeks when your body's going through the nicotine withdrawal. So prepare people for that. You may be avoiding social situations where you're around other smokers. Let people know that in advance, that it's nothing personal. You're just trying to avoid temptation until you get through this critical period as your body's going through that withdrawal. So those are some suggestions."

Physician: "Okay. Well, you know, you shouldn't really be too hard on yourself because typically people who try to quit smoking are not successful on their first attempt. It often takes them several attempts before they finally do quit. The important thing is that you've tried, and it sounds like you're still really interested, that you're very motivated. Do you think at this point that you're willing to set an actual quit date, say, within the next month?"

Physician: "Okay. So why don't we try to come up with a quit date? You said your wife doesn't smoke, so I would suggest trying to quit over a weekend when you're away from work and you're away from people who are smoking around you. How does that sound?"

Physician: "That's great because that would give you some time to prepare."

Physician: "What you need to do is clean out your ashtrays at home, at work, in the car. Clean out the car so that it smells nice and fresh."

Physician: "Get rid of cigarette lighters. Let people know, like we talked about, that you're trying to quit. That's really critical. There's a pamphlet here that is helpful for a lot of people that describes a lot of the things that we talked about. We were talking about keeping a journal, keeping a log, when you get your cravings. It talks about the various nicotine replacement products and the medications and coping mechanisms like we were discussing. How will I deal with these triggers? There's a little button here that you can wear that says, Be kind, I'm quitting."

Physician: "That tells everybody up front that I'm going through this potentially difficult time. Be nice to me."

Physician: "Okay, great. Well, if you do have any questions after you go through the material, please make sure to give me a call."

Physician: "Either myself or anyone in the office will certainly be willing to help you in whatever way we can. If you decide you want to go with one of the medications that we talked about, the Cantix or the Zyban, those do require a prescription. I'll be happy to write a prescription for you and provide any additional information about the products if you feel like you need it."

Physician: "Okay, all right. So then what I'll do is I'll plan on calling you, say, within a couple of days."

Physician: "After your actual quit date, which you said is going to be two weeks from this Saturday. From this Saturday."

Physician: "All right, great. Unless I hear from you before then, if you have any questions. Sure, sure. As we talked about. Does that sound okay?"

Physician: "All right, all right, terrific. Dorothy should be in shortly to do your prophy, and maybe, hopefully, this will be the last time she's removing tobacco stains from your teeth."

Physician: "Okay. That would be great. Terrific. So then I'll see you at the end of the prophy visit to check your mouth."