Physician: "Why do you think that happened?"

Patient: "I mean, a couple. I mean, job stress, you know, project deadlines, those sorts of things. I mean, you know, when you're going out with your friends. A lot of my friends and coworkers smoke, so it's kind of like a situational thing. Just light one up, and it's just really hard to resist that temptation."

Physician: "Okay, all right. So do you think you would want to quit, do you think?"

Patient: "Absolutely, yeah. I mean, like I said, this has got to happen before. I would really like to be rid of this within four months, you know, before the baby's born."

Physician: "Have you ever thought about what triggers your desire to smoke? Like, when you get a craving, when does that typically happen?"

Patient: "Well, like I said, stress, job stress, really brings them on. But usually, like in the mornings, like when I'm driving to work or to an appointment or something, I light one up after a meal with a cup of coffee. That sort of thing usually brings it on. And also, of course, like I said, being in the presence of people smoking, that's like..."

Physician: "Okay, yeah, that's pretty common."

Patient: "Yeah."

Physician: "Sometimes it's actually helpful to keep a log of when you smoke and when you get your cravings. You know, we talked about all the different medications, but it's important to keep in mind that none of those are magic bullets. To really be successful with a quit attempt, you have to really be ready. It sounds like you might be at that point."

Patient: "Definitely."

Physician: "You have to sort of anticipate in advance what your triggers are going to be, what's going to set off a craving for you, and sort of come up with a plan. Think about it in advance. What will I do when I get that craving for the cigarette? How will I deal with that?"

Patient: "Okay. Do you have any suggestions as to how to do that? Because I'm anticipating some really strong ones. Just from trying to quit in the past, they're real and they're there, and I really don't know what to do there."

Physician: "Okay. Well, cravings usually last about maybe three to five minutes."

Patient: "Okay."

Physician: "So the whole key to success is to come up with distractions. What am I going to do in that time frame when I get that craving? So as I was listening to what triggers your need for cigarettes, you said you're driving."

Patient: "Right."

Physician: "So if you're in the car driving, turn the radio on. Sing along with the radio. That's a distraction. Okay. You might consider carpooling with someone who doesn't smoke, and that would be a deterrent from smoking."

Patient: "Yeah."

Physician: "Keep a water bottle maybe with you that has a straw in it, something to put in your mouth as a distraction. When you're at work, maybe keep some healthy snacks close by, like carrot sticks, celery sticks, something that's healthy. If you're craving a cigarette after you eat, brush your teeth right away, right after the meal. So that will make your mouth feel nice and fresh and be another deterrent from smoking. You might go for a walk, take a jog. The whole idea is to replace an unhealthy habit with a healthy habit. It's sort of like a lifestyle change."

Patient: "Okay."

Physician: "And then also, very importantly, you have to have a support system in place, family, friends, coworkers. You've got to get people on board to help you because typically you can't do this alone."

Patient: "Sure, I've noticed."

Physician: "Do you have support?"

Patient: "Sure. I mean, you know, my wife doesn't smoke, so she's definitely going to be happy and helpful. The only thing, I mean, like I said, most of my friends and coworkers are smokers, but not all of them. So that might present a problem."

Physician: "Okay. Well, what might help, what usually helps people, is let other people know up front that you're trying to quit and you need their support. You're going to be irritable, you're going to be moody, especially during the first couple of weeks when your body's going through the nicotine withdrawal. So prepare people for that. You may be avoiding social situations where you're around other smokers. Let people know that in advance, that it's nothing personal. You're just trying to avoid temptation until you get through this critical period as your body's going through that withdrawal. So those are some suggestions."

Patient: "Yeah, I had not thought about that before when I tried, so that's why I would imagine it was pretty difficult."

Physician: "Okay. Well, you know, you shouldn't really be too hard on yourself because typically people who try to quit smoking are not successful on their first attempt. It often takes them several attempts before they finally do quit. The important thing is that you've tried, and it sounds like you're still really interested, that you're very motivated. Do you think at this point that you're willing to set an actual quit date, say, within the next month?"

Patient: "Yeah, the sooner the better, yeah."

Physician: "Okay. So why don't we try to come up with a quit date? You said your wife doesn't smoke, so I would suggest trying to quit over a weekend when you're away from work and you're away from people who are smoking around you. How does that sound?"

Patient: "That sounds great. I mean, I think a couple of weeks, two weeks from now."

Physician: "Would that be a reasonable time frame for you?"

Patient: "Yeah."

Physician: "Okay. That's great because that would give you some time to prepare."

Patient: "Okay."

Physician: "What you need to do is clean out your ashtrays at home, at work, in the car. Clean out the car so that it smells nice and fresh."

Patient: "Okay."

Physician: "Get rid of cigarette lighters. Let people know, like we talked about, that you're trying to quit. That's really critical. There's a pamphlet here that is helpful for a lot of people that describes a lot of the things that we talked about. We were talking about keeping a journal, keeping a log, when you get your cravings. It talks about the various nicotine replacement products and the medications and coping mechanisms like we were discussing. How will I deal with these triggers? There's a little button here that you can wear that says, Be kind, I'm quitting."

Patient: "Wow."

Physician: "That tells everybody up front that I'm going through this potentially difficult time. Be nice to me."

Patient: "Give me a break."

Physician: "Give me a break. Exactly."

Patient: "That's great. Okay."