Physician: "Okay. Can you tell me a little bit more about the pain? Where it's located?"

Patient: "It was right down here. My right side."

Physician: "Okay. Did it move anywhere?"

Patient: "It kind of. It started right there, but then it went down into my groin area."

Physician: "Okay. All right. What kind of pain was it?"

Patient: "It was really bad. I would call it maybe tearing pain."

Physician: "Okay. That must have been scary."

Patient: "It was awful, yeah. Very frightening."

Physician: "Have you ever had a pain like that before?"

Patient: "No. Never."

Physician: "Okay. If you had to qualify it or quantify it on a scale where zero is no pain and ten is the worst thing ever, where would you put it?"

Patient: "I would say pretty bad. Maybe a ten."

Physician: "Okay. And you said the pain does radiate a little bit. It moves into your groin a little bit."

Patient: "Mm-hmm"

Physician: "Okay. Anything make the pain better?"

Patient: "I tried a bunch of things, but I don't think it really made it any better."

Physician: "Okay. What did you try?"

Patient: "Well, when it woke me up, I got out of bed. I kind of paced around. I tried some Tylenol."

Physician: "Okay."

Patient: "But I don't think that really helped either."

Physician: "How much Tylenol did you take?"

Patient: "I took two tablets."

Physician: "Okay. Extra strength or regular?"

Patient: "I think it was regular strength."

Physician: "Okay. But that didn't seem to do much?"

Patient: "No."

Physician: "And walking around didn't seem to do much either?"

Patient: "No."

Physician: "Okay. Does anything seem to make it worse?"

Patient: "I don't think so. It was just kind of there."

Physician: "Okay. All right. Are there any other medicines that you take on a regular basis?"

Patient: "No. No."

Physician: "Okay. Anything over-the-counter?"

Patient: "Oh, yeah. I do take Tums."

Physician: "Okay. All right. How many Tums do you take?"

Patient: "Oh, I would take maybe six to eight tablets a day."

Physician: "Okay. Well, that's kind of a lot. How come so many?"

Patient: "Well, I read that it's good to take calcium supplements so you don't get osteoporosis."

Physician: "Okay."

Patient: "I've been just taking them with every meal."

Physician: "Have you been told that you had osteoporosis?"

Patient: "No."

Physician: "Okay. Anybody in your family have osteoporosis?"

Patient: "I don't think so."

Physician: "Okay. So more of a preventive sort of thing?"

Patient: "Yes."

Physician: "Okay. That may be too many. We'll have to talk a little bit more about that later. Certainly, they're not doing anything terrible to you, but we should probably talk about some other ways to get some calcium into your system."

Patient: "Okay"

Physician: "I just want to jump back to the pain now so I wouldn't get the whole story about that. Were there any other symptoms that you noticed at the same time as you had this pain?"

Patient: "Yeah. I kept having, feeling like I had to pee."

Physician: "Okay."

Patient: "So I would get up, I'd go to the bathroom, and a little bit would come out, and then I'd get up again, and I'd walk around, whatever, and then I'd feel like I'd have to go again, and just a little bit would come out."

Physician: "Okay. Were you ever able to go?"

Patient: "Yeah. Very early this morning, I'd say it must have been about almost five o'clock."

Physician: "Okay."

Patient: "All of a sudden, I peed a lot."

Physician: "Okay. All right. And was there anything unusual about the urine?"

Patient: "Yeah. It was kind of, I don't know, brownish color."

Physician: "Okay. All right. And have you ever seen that kind of color of urine before?"

Patient: "No."

Physician: "Okay. Just a couple other questions about when you were having the pain. Did you ever feel any nausea?"

Patient: "Yeah, I was nauseous off and on. Yeah."

Physician: "Okay. Did you have any vomiting?"

Patient: "No."

Physician: "Okay. How about any changes in your bowels in the last few days or today?"

Patient: "I went yesterday like normal, and this morning."

Physician: "Okay. All right. And it wasn't diarrhea?"

Patient: "No."

Physician: "Okay. About your menstrual history, are you currently having menses?"

Patient: "No."

Physician: "Okay. When was the last time?"

Patient: "I'd say it was a good year and a half ago."

Physician: "Okay. All right. So it's been a while. Have you had any vaginal discharge at all?"

Patient: "No."

Physician: "Anything like that? All right. And have you had a fever that you know of?"

Patient: "No, I don't think so."

Physician: "About in terms of your diet, anything new in terms of your diet, eating more protein than normal or anything?"

Patient: "No. No."

Physician: "Pretty much the same. Okay. How about fluid intake? What do you normally drink during the day?"

Patient: "Well, I usually have juice with breakfast and coffee, and I'll have something, if I'm at work, sometimes I'll have a water bottle with me, sometimes I won't, although lately I haven't been because I feel like maybe if I don't have to pee so much."

Physician: "Okay. So maybe you've been drinking a little less than normal?"

Patient: "Yeah, I guess I have been."

Physician: "Okay. All right. Well, that might be something that we want to address too just to make sure that you're drinking enough to be healthy overall."

Patient: "Okay"

Physician: "Okay. So I just want to kind of summarize what you've told me so far since I jumped around a little bit and make sure that I got everything right. If anything's wrong, let me know for sure, or if we forgot anything."

Patient: "Okay"

Physician: "Okay. So you've had this pain that woke you up out of sleep this morning. It was really severe, tearing pain in your right side, about a 10 out of 10, really one of the worst pains you've ever had. Moves into your groin a little bit, and you tried to walk around, took some Tylenol, nothing really helped to make it any better. And at the same time, you also had this feeling that you had to pee, and you tried to pee and weren't able to pass any urine until later this morning when you finally were able to pass some urine, but you noticed it was kind of a funny reddish color. And at the same time, you had some nausea, but no vomiting, and you haven't really had any other urinary symptoms. I'm not sure if I asked that. Have you had any pain with urinating?"

Patient: "No."

Physician: "Okay. Does that sound like a reasonable summary? Anything I missed?"

Patient: "I remember that I was also pretty sweaty during the whole thing."

Physician: "Okay."

Patient: "I felt nauseous."

Physician: "Okay, good. Well, I think I have a pretty good picture of what happened. I just want to ask you some other questions about your medical history."