Given a conversation between a patient and a physician, you will identify the number of empathetic opportunities and
grade the physician's empathy.
Empathic opportunities are defined as patient statements that include an explicit (i.e. clear and direct) statement
of emotion, progress, or challenge by the patient.
Identify the number of empathic opportunities in this conversation and grade the response to each of them on a numeric
scale from 0 to 6. Then, classify and tabulate the scores.
Your response should first contain a summary of the number of emphatic opportunities and the classification of the physician's
responses and then a breakdown of why each responses was classified that way with a short explanation. Be sure to cite
both the original emphatic opportunity and physician response in your answer.

Below are some examples of some emphatic opportunities and examples of positive and negative physician responses.

Empathetic opportunities examples:
Emotion:
- My father had colon cancer and died because of it. I'm scared the same thing is happening to me.
- I’ve been feeling guilty because I’ve been neglecting my diet for so long.
- I have been sitting in the waiting room for 30 minutes, that has been incredibly frustrating.
Challenge:
- I've been having difficulty remembering to take my medications every day.
- Getting pleasure from the little things has been really tough lately.
- Everyone tells me I need to fight the cancer, but I’m not sure if I’m up to it.
Progress:
- I'm smoking less than when I last came to the doctor's office.
- I’ve recently lost about 10 pounds since reducing my portions during meals.
- I’ve been trying to use more positive thinking in my daily life.

You will rate the physician responses to empathetic opportunities on a numeric rating from 0 to 6. Here is the rubric to follow and examples of each rating.

A response in which the physician expresses a shared feeling experience with the patient’s empathetic opportunity gets a value of 6. An example of a physician response that earns a 6 is as follows:
Patient: My mother passed away last year.
Physician: I lost my father recently as well, I understand how difficult it can be to deal with the loss of a close family member.

A response in which the physician confirms the empathetic opportunity provided by the patient gets a value of 5. An example of a physician response that earns a 5 is as follows:
Patient: I’ve really been struggling with quitting smoking since our last appointment.
Physician: It is a really tough step to quit smoking, you have been doing well in putting effort into quitting.

A response in which the physician acknowledges the empathetic opportunity provided by the patient and then pursues the empathetic opportunity with a related comment or question gets a value of 4. An example of a physician response that earns a 4 is as follows:
Patient: Every time I go home I can’t help thinking about the brother I lost, it makes me really emotional.
Physician: I’m sorry to hear that. How often do you go home?

A response in which the physician acknowledges the empathetic opportunity provided by the patient without further pursuit of discussion related to the empathetic opportunity gets a value of 3. An example of a physician response that earns a 3 is as follows:
Patient: My son has been sick so often recently, it has really been distressing me lately.
Physician: I’m sorry to hear that.

A response in which the physician offers implicit recognition (in contrast to explicit recognition) of a patient’s empathetic opportunity gets a value of 2. An example of a physician response that earns a 2 is as follows:
Patient: I’m now the primary caregiver for my mother which has been really difficult.
Physician: How long has she needed a caregiver?

A response in which the physician offers perfunctory recognition of the patient’s empathetic opportunity gets a value of 1. An example of a physician response that earns a 1 is as follows:
Patient: There are days when I feel like I just can’t get out of bed.
Physician: I see.

A response in which the physician ignores or dismisses the patient’s empathetic opportunity gets a value of 0. An example of a physician response that earns a 0 is as follows:
Patient: Eating healthy has been such a challenge, I feel like my willpower is awful.
Physician: Have you been having headaches?

Here is an example on how you should structure your response:
Summary:
The conversation presented 6 empathetic opportunities. The responses of the physician were dismissive in the beginning, receiving a score of 0 and 1. It improved slightly by predominantly acknowledging in nature but generally didn't further pursue a discussion.

Breakdown:
1. Empathetic Opportunity: "Pardon me while I try to maintain my composure, I'm a bit nervous."
   Physician Response: "what's been going on?"
   Score: 1
   The physician does not acknowledge the patient's nervousness and the response is only perfunctory recognition.

2. Empathetic Opportunity: "... it just really scared me honestly."
   Physician Response: "Any changes in weight or appetite?"
   Score: 0
   The physician completely misses the empathetic opportunity by asking about weight loss and appetite changes which are not directly related to patient's fear.

3. Empathetic Opportunity: "Despite the scariness of this situation, I've been trying hard not to let my health slide any further down."
   Physician Response: "That's a lot of medications. Have you been feeling dizzy or lightheaded?"
   Score: 2
   The physician implicitly recognized the patient's discomfort and effort by asking about a symptom but did not explicitly acknowledge the patient's emotion.

4. Empathetic Opportunity: "It is tough and confusing, to be honest. You never know what is a result of what. It's a bit overwhelming."
   Physician Response: "We're here to understand what's going on. Do you have any abdominal pain?"
   Score: 3
   The physician acknowledged the patient's confusion and feelings of being overwhelmed but did not pursue a further discussion.

5. Empathetic Opportunity: "This has been a challenging period for me."
   Physician Response: "I'm sorry to hear that. Any abdominal surgeries in the past?"
   Score: 3
   The physician acknowledged the challenge the patient is facing but did not further the discussion about it.

6. Empathetic Opportunity: "It's quite frightening to think about it all. You see, I have this liver cirrhosis due to my past chronic alcohol use, and these symptoms are making me feel exceedingly apprehensive."
   Physician Response: "it's understandable that you feel apprehensive about all of this. i'm worried you may be bleeding from your abdominal tract."
   Score: 4
   The patient is feeling exceedingly apprehensive about symptom's relation to existing liver cirrhosis. The physician acknowledges the feeling and provides reassurance.

 In conclusion, the physician could improve by not only acknowledging the emotions and challenges faced by the patient but by opening more in-depth conversation about their experiences and feelings.

Conversation history:
