Physician: "So probably what the plan is going to be is that I'm going to ask you a few questions. They'll probably be dental-related and medical-related just so we can kind of get an idea of what's going on. And then we'll probably just do an exam, take a look in your mouth, and see what we can do and kind of make a plan for you. Does that sound good?"

Physician: "Okay. All right. So what brought you here today?"

Physician: "Okay. All right. Just so I can get an idea. Now, what about, I'm going to ask just a little bit more about your past dental history because I've kind of got an idea about your chief complaint right now. We'll address that first today, but I want to kind of get an overall picture."

Physician: "Okay. Well, I mean, there have been some studies done, and the American Dental Association has said that amalgam fillings that have the mercury in it are safe to use. But, however, there are some other materials that we could use. There's some resins and certain other types of materials that we could try. And I'll take a look at this and see if we can find something that you'd be comfortable with that we could try that might be not as sensitive."

Physician: "Yeah, we won't put anything in your mouth that you're not comfortable with first. But we'll probably have to do just a little bit of research and a little bit of picking and choosing of what kind of materials that we would use if you needed a few more fillings done. Okay."

Physician: "So I think I have a good idea about medical history a little bit. So have you been seeing a physician on a regular basis?"

Physician: "Okay. All right. I think I have a fairly good idea of medical history and dental history. So what we'll probably do now is take a look, if that's okay, to see what we can find, kind of diagnose the problem a little bit. And we'll focus on those, you know, the problems on the lower teeth if that's, you know, really bothering you. And then we'll probably get a plan for you, kind of a treatment plan, that, you know, you will want to approve. And after I look at this, we'll discuss a lot more about what kind of materials that we can use to fill the teeth or restore the teeth if they need to be restored. Does that sound all right?"

Physician: "No, I totally understand. We'll make sure that everything we do that you're comfortable with at first. We're not going to do, you know, anything that you're not comfortable with."

Physician: "All right. Does that sound good?"

Physician: "We'll go out and get everything ready. We'll probably take a couple pictures of your teeth, x-rays. Is that all right, to take some x-rays of your teeth?"

Physician: "Okay. All right. We'll try to do that and take a look in your mouth. I'll make sure we use some non-latex gloves so that won't be a problem. And I'll be back soon."

Physician: "All right. I will make sure. I'll have you look at the box first. I'll put them out here so you can see them. Does that sound all right?"

Physician: "Sounds good. It was really nice to meet you, and I'll be back in a few minutes."