Physician: "So just so I've got an idea, you're feeling like you have some abscesses in your mouth and they are on both sides on the lower."
Patient: "Yeah."
Physician: "And it's been about 10 days, but you had some mercury fillings, some probably amalgam, are they silver-colored?"
Patient: "Yeah."
Physician: "Silver-colored fillings in the past and you think that might be the cause and you had those removed about two years ago, is that correct?"
Patient: "About two years ago."
Physician: "About two years ago. Okay. Alright. Just so I can get an idea."
Physician: "So you feel like you've had dental work in the past pretty much on a regular basis. Is that correct?"
Patient: "Mm-hmm."
Physician: "And just you were in a car, and you're feeling like as soon as you had the new car, certain health problems were starting to happen. Is that correct?"
Patient: "That was kind of this, you know, it kind of snowballed from there. And I don't know if that, you know, was the official trigger."
Physician: "Okay."
Physician: "All right, and so do you think the problems with your teeth, you think they're related to chemical sensitivities? Is that my understanding?"
Patient: "Well, I had the mercury taken out. I had a lab report done. It was like a serum thing."
Physician: "Okay."
Patient: "And I sent some samples out to Colorado, and that's actually the report right here."
Physician: "Oh, okay."
Patient: "If you can take a look later. It's pretty extensive, yeah."
Physician: "Okay. Yeah, I will take a look at this later a little bit. So you think it's just some chemical sensitivities to your teeth, and that's why you had the amalgam fillings removed then. Is that correct?"
Patient: "I wasn't sure if my body was rejecting the mercury or what was happening, but I figured it was a good idea to take them out. I had done some reading on my own, and then with the lab results, they said, you know, mercury wasn't good for me. So I figured I'd have them out."
Physician: "Okay. Well, I mean, there have been some studies done, and the American Dental Association has said that amalgam fillings that have the mercury in it are safe to use. But, however, there are some other materials that we could use. There's some resins and certain other types of materials that we could try. And I'll take a look at this and see if we can find something that you'd be comfortable with that we could try that might be not as sensitive."
Physician: "So we have shortness of breath. We're going to try to start out with go ahead and using the oxygen while you're comfortable. You have had some chest pain that kind of comes and goes."
Patient: "Yeah. Dizziness, too. Not that often either."
Physician: "Okay."
Patient: "But, again, I don't know when it's going to hit me."
Physician: "Okay. All right. But no heart murmurs or any diagnosed type of heart problem?"
Patient: "No. I mean, even before this all started, it's like I exercised. I skied. I did yoga, everything."
Physician: "Okay."
Patient: "So, you know, nothing until this happened."
Physician: "All right. And are you taking any medications at all?"
Patient: "Well, no, not really medications. I take just all natural vitamins and minerals, but no medications, no."
Physician: "No medications at all. Okay. But you are taking some multivitamins or some type of vitamins?"
Patient: "Yeah."
Physician: "Okay. What about any herbs or anything, non-prescribed medications?"
Patient: "No."
Physician: "No. Okay."
Physician: "All right. I think I have a fairly good idea of medical history and dental history. So what we'll probably do now is take a look, if that's okay, to see what we can find, kind of diagnose the problem a little bit. And we'll focus on those, you know, the problems on the lower teeth if that's, you know, really bothering you. And then we'll probably get a plan for you, kind of a treatment plan, that, you know, you will want to approve. And after I look at this, we'll discuss a lot more about what kind of materials that we can use to fill the teeth or restore the teeth if they need to be restored. Does that sound all right?"
Patient: "It's good. I have had, you know, friends, you know, make fun of me because they're like, oh, chemical sensitivities and stuff. But it sounds like you'll be able to understand what I'm going through."
Physician: "No, I totally understand. We'll make sure that everything we do that you're comfortable with at first. We're not going to do, you know, anything that you're not comfortable with."
Patient: "Okay."
Physician: "All right. Does that sound good?"
Patient: "That sounds good."
Physician: "We'll go out and get everything ready. We'll probably take a couple pictures of your teeth, x-rays. Is that all right, to take some x-rays of your teeth?"
Patient: "I guess so."
Physician: "Okay. All right. We'll try to do that and take a look in your mouth. I'll make sure we use some non-latex gloves so that won't be a problem. And I'll be back soon."
Patient: "Double check on the box, though, because I'm highly allergic."
Patient: "All right. I will make sure. I'll have you look at the box first. I'll put them out here so you can see them. Does that sound all right?"
Physician: "Sounds good. It was really nice to meet you, and I'll be back in a few minutes."
Patient: "All right. Thank you."