Physician: "So probably what the plan is going to be is that I'm going to ask you a few questions. They'll probably be dental-related and medical-related just so we can kind of get an idea of what's going on. And then we'll probably just do an exam, take a look in your mouth, and see what we can do and kind of make a plan for you. Does that sound good?"

Physician: "Can you describe the pain to me a little bit?"

Physician: "How long is the pain, like the duration of the pain?"

Physician: "Yeah, yeah. Kind of just describe a little bit to me."

Physician: "Okay. Alright. So just so I've got an idea, you're feeling like you have some abscesses in your mouth and they are on both sides on the lower."

Physician: "And it's been about 10 days, but you had some mercury fillings, some probably amalgam, are they silver-colored?"

Physician: "Silver-colored fillings in the past and you think that might be the cause and you had those removed about two years ago, is that correct?"

Physician: "Just the wisdom teeth and a few fillings, is that about it?"

Physician: "And did you see the dentist regularly or just when it was painful for you?"

Physician: "Why did you have the fillings removed? What do you think was the problem?"

Physician: "Okay. Well, I mean, there have been some studies done, and the American Dental Association has said that amalgam fillings that have the mercury in it are safe to use. But, however, there are some other materials that we could use. There's some resins and certain other types of materials that we could try. And I'll take a look at this and see if we can find something that you'd be comfortable with that we could try that might be not as sensitive."

Physician: "Yeah, we won't put anything in your mouth that you're not comfortable with first. But we'll probably have to do just a little bit of research and a little bit of picking and choosing of what kind of materials that we would use if you needed a few more fillings done. Okay. Now, do you brush and floss regularly?"

Physician: "Okay. How often?"

Physician: "What kind of products are you using again? I know you mentioned it."

Physician: "So this may seem like a broad question, but I know you mentioned it before. What are some of the significant medical problems that you have?"

Physician: "Okay. Yeah, I noticed you did have the oxygen tank, so I was going to ask you about that. How often do you have to use it?"

Physician: "Okay. And why do you have it?"

Physician: "Okay. All right. And you have to use it all the time or just outside of the house?"

Physician: "Okay. All right. And did a doctor prescribe that for you?"

Physician: "Okay. And how long have you used it?"

Physician: "Maybe a little longer. Okay, so about 18 months with shortness of breath. Do you think you're going to —I think it will be fine if you use it here. If you feel more comfortable, you know, with coming to the dental appointments, with it, that's all right. Do you think it will be fine if we lean you back in the chair and things like that? Will you be all right?"

Physician: "Okay. We can try it out and see, and you may even find out that you don't need it."

Physician: "Yeah, so we'll try it out and see how it works. All right. And see how comfortable you are keeping it on, or you may even feel comfortable later on taking it off, but we'll see. All right?"

Physician: "All right. Any other significant medical problems besides the shortness of breath?"

Physician: "Okay, but nothing has been diagnosed?"

Physician: "Okay. All right. Any, for example, any, like, heart problems?"

Physician: "Lung problems?"

Physician: "Just the shortness of breath?"

Physician: "Okay. Anything diagnosed of it?"

Physician: "Okay. Anything with, like, type 2 diabetes or type 1 diabetes, anything like that?"

Physician: "You don't have that? Okay."

Physician: "Your mother does?"

Physician: "All right. Any other?"

Physician: "She has type 2. Any other medical problems that run in the family, heart problems or lung problems or anything like that?"

Physician: "Okay. All right."

Physician: "Just the diabetes? All right. Do you live with your mom, or does she live close by?"

Physician: "You live with her. Okay. So do you have a little bit of family support then at home?"

Physician: "Okay. Yeah. All right. Let's see. What else? Make sure. So we have shortness of breath. We're going to try to start out with go ahead and using the oxygen while you're comfortable. You have had some chest pain that kind of comes and goes."

Physician: "Okay."

Physician: "All right. But no heart murmurs or any diagnosed type of heart problem?"

Physician: "Okay."

Physician: "All right. And are you taking any medications at all?"

Physician: "No medications at all. Okay. But you are taking some multivitamins or some type of vitamins?"

Physician: "Okay. What about any herbs or anything, non-prescribed medications?"

Physician: "No. Okay. All right. I know you mentioned latex as being an allergy and some anesthetics, but you don't know what kind of anesthetics?"

Physician: "Okay. There are a few that, you know, anesthetics that we usually use here at the health center. You don't want to use any?"

Physician: "Any?"

Physician: "Okay. Well, if you're allergic to them, we wouldn't use anything, of course, that you're allergic to. If there's large fillings or something like that, you'd probably be more comfortable being numb. But if you don't feel comfortable with that, if you're allergic to something, then we can try it without and see how it goes."

Physician: "All right. Besides the anesthetics and the latex, any other allergies at all that you know of?"

Physician: "Okay. Do you drink?"

Physician: "No. What about smoking?"

Physician: "No. Okay. So, you know, some of those can, you know, be related to dental problems, too. So that's just why I'm asking. All right. Any infectious diseases at all, such as HIV?"

Physician: "Hepatitis?"

Physician: "Tuberculosis? Anything like that?"

Physician: "No? Okay. All right. So I think I have a good idea about medical history a little bit. So have you been seeing a physician on a regular basis?"

Physician: "Not exactly. Not exactly. I've had a few, you know, consulting doctors, nothing regular."

Physician: "Okay."

Physician: "So you're pretty familiar with all that."

Physician: "Okay."

Physician: "Okay."

Physician: "What about transportation? Is transportation going to be a problem or not?"

Physician: "Okay."

Physician: "Okay. So you would be able to come if a friend could drive you?"

Physician: "Okay. All right. And do you – I know you used to mention you were a nurse. Do you work at all now or no?"

Physician: "Okay. So timeframes for the appointments wouldn't be too much of a problem then?"

Physician: "Okay. All right. All right. I think I have a fairly good idea of medical history and dental history. So what we'll probably do now is take a look, if that's okay, to see what we can find, kind of diagnose the problem a little bit. And we'll focus on those, you know, the problems on the lower teeth if that's, you know, really bothering you. And then we'll probably get a plan for you, kind of a treatment plan, that, you know, you will want to approve. And after I look at this, we'll discuss a lot more about what kind of materials that we can use to fill the teeth or restore the teeth if they need to be restored. Does that sound all right?"

Physician: "No, I totally understand. We'll make sure that everything we do that you're comfortable with at first. We're not going to do, you know, anything that you're not comfortable with."

Physician: "All right. Does that sound good?"

Physician: "We'll go out and get everything ready. We'll probably take a couple pictures of your teeth, x-rays. Is that all right, to take some x-rays of your teeth?"

Physician: "Okay. All right. We'll try to do that and take a look in your mouth. I'll make sure we use some non-latex gloves so that won't be a problem. And I'll be back soon."

Physician: "All right. I will make sure. I'll have you look at the box first. I'll put them out here so you can see them. Does that sound all right?"

Physician: "Sounds good. It was really nice to meet you, and I'll be back in a few minutes."