Physician: "Do you live with your mom, or does she live close by?"
Patient: "I live with her."
Physician: "You live with her. Okay. So do you have a little bit of family support then at home?"
Patient: "Well, she's 78, and the diabetes really affects her. So, I mean, it's more about her than it is about me at this point."
Physician: "Okay. Yeah. All right. Let's see. What else? Make sure. So we have shortness of breath. We're going to try to start out with go ahead and using the oxygen while you're comfortable. You have had some chest pain that kind of comes and goes."
Patient: "Yeah. Dizziness, too. Not that often either."
Physician: "Okay."
Patient: "But, again, I don't know when it's going to hit me."
Physician: "Okay. All right. But no heart murmurs or any diagnosed type of heart problem?"
Patient: "No. I mean, even before this all started, it's like I exercised. I skied. I did yoga, everything."
Physician: "Okay."
Patient: "So, you know, nothing until this happened."
Physician: "All right. And are you taking any medications at all?"
Patient: "Well, no, not really medications. I take just all natural vitamins and minerals, but no medications, no."
Physician: "No medications at all. Okay. But you are taking some multivitamins or some type of vitamins?"
Patient: "Yeah."
Physician: "Okay. What about any herbs or anything, non-prescribed medications?"
Patient: "No."
Physician: "No. Okay. All right. I know you mentioned latex as being an allergy and some anesthetics, but you don't know what kind of anesthetics?"
Patient: "Not really sure, no."
Physician: "Okay. There are a few that, you know, anesthetics that we usually use here at the health center. You don't want to use any?"
Patient: "No, no."
Physician: "Any?"
Patient: "No"
Physician: "Okay. Well, if you're allergic to them, we wouldn't use anything, of course, that you're allergic to. If there's large fillings or something like that, you'd probably be more comfortable being numb. But if you don't feel comfortable with that, if you're allergic to something, then we can try it without and see how it goes."
Patient: "Okay."
Physician: "All right. Besides the anesthetics and the latex, any other allergies at all that you know of?"
Patient: "No."
Physician: "Okay. Do you drink?"
Patient: "No."
Physician: "No. What about smoking?"
Patient: "No."
Physician: "No. Okay. So, you know, some of those can, you know, be related to dental problems, too. So that's just why I'm asking. All right. Any infectious diseases at all, such as HIV?"
Patient: "No."
Physician: "Hepatitis?"
Patient: "No."
Physician: "Tuberculosis? Anything like that?"
Patient: "No."
Physician: "No? Okay. All right. So I think I have a good idea about medical history a little bit. So have you been seeing a physician on a regular basis?"
Patient: "Not exactly. Not exactly. I've had a few, you know, consulting doctors, nothing regular."
Physician: "Okay."
Patient: "I had the report done, which is pretty thorough as far as what I'm allergic to, what I'm not, what my body has in it. So I've kind of been doing – I used to be a nurse, so I'm, you know, kind of familiar with it."
Physician: "So you're pretty familiar with all that."
Patient: "Yeah."
Physician: "Okay."
Patient: "Yeah. So kind of based on what the report said, I've been doing a lot of research on the Internet and on my own."
Physician: "Okay. All right. All right. And then I know we talked a little bit about your family. Were you married or are you married at all?"
Patient: "No."
Physician: "No. So you just live with your mom who's a little bit disabled."
Patient: "Yeah."
Physician: "What about transportation? Is transportation going to be a problem or not?"
Patient: "Well, I can't take public transportation. I don't know what I'm going to be exposed to with that."
Physician: "Okay."
Patient: "So I have friends drive me."
Physician: "Okay. So you would be able to come if a friend could drive you?"
Patient: "Yeah. My mom absolutely can't."
Physician: "Okay. All right. And do you – I know you used to mention you were a nurse. Do you work at all now or no?"
Patient: "No. No. I'm on permanent disability now."
Physician: "Okay. So timeframes for the appointments wouldn't be too much of a problem then?"
Patient: "As long as I could get a ride, yeah."
Physician: "Okay. All right. All right. I think I have a fairly good idea of medical history and dental history. So what we'll probably do now is take a look, if that's okay, to see what we can find, kind of diagnose the problem a little bit. And we'll focus on those, you know, the problems on the lower teeth if that's, you know, really bothering you. And then we'll probably get a plan for you, kind of a treatment plan, that, you know, you will want to approve. And after I look at this, we'll discuss a lot more about what kind of materials that we can use to fill the teeth or restore the teeth if they need to be restored. Does that sound all right?"
Patient: "It's good. I have had, you know, friends, you know, make fun of me because they're like, oh, chemical sensitivities and stuff. But it sounds like you'll be able to understand what I'm going through."
Physician: "No, I totally understand. We'll make sure that everything we do that you're comfortable with at first. We're not going to do, you know, anything that you're not comfortable with."
Patient: "Okay."
Physician: "All right. Does that sound good?"
Patient: "That sounds good."
Physician: "We'll go out and get everything ready. We'll probably take a couple pictures of your teeth, x-rays. Is that all right, to take some x-rays of your teeth?"
Patient: "I guess so."
Physician: "Okay. All right. We'll try to do that and take a look in your mouth. I'll make sure we use some non-latex gloves so that won't be a problem. And I'll be back soon."
Patient: "Double check on the box, though, because I'm highly allergic."
Patient: "All right. I will make sure. I'll have you look at the box first. I'll put them out here so you can see them. Does that sound all right?"
Physician: "Sounds good. It was really nice to meet you, and I'll be back in a few minutes."
Patient: "All right. Thank you."