Physician: So what we'll try to do is once we decide on an exercise program, check back with you pretty often so that we make sure your back is okay. 

Physician: Let's see. Is there anything that you think would stop you from exercising? Anything that you're worried about?

Patient: Well, I'm kind of leery of going to a gym, although I guess they have the best facility. But since I have the problems and I just don't want to be in a bathing suit, I have horrendous varicose veins, which don't look too nice. So it's kind of making me – I mean, I will do it probably, but it's going to be hard to get into.

Physician: We'll keep that in mind, too, when we eventually talk about what exactly we should be doing.

Physician: Now, all of these things are things that exercise can help. Have you heard about the benefits that exercise has?

Patient: Not really.

Physician: Well, exercise is very good for your heart health, for your lung health, pretty much total body health. Sometimes it can help out with weight loss, which then leads to additional benefits for your heart and the rest of your body, including your joints. So it might be important, especially important, if you have a family history of any of those things, to exercise in order to avoid your getting them. Does that make sense?

Patient: Yeah, it does.

Physician: How about we think about your starting a gym program and talking to your daughter, Lucy, and trying to get her involved in that with you. And seeing if your husband would want to do that, too. And what we could do is we could make some sort of alternating routine. You could spend two or three days a week at the gym with Lucy, and you could spend a few days a week doing something with your husband, another type of exercise, if he isn't able to make it to the gym.

Patient: Sounds good.

Physician: Okay. Let's see. So at the gym, another benefit is that they often have personal trainers. And what they do is for a first visit at the gym, gyms usually give the new client, say, an hour or so with a personal trainer to walk them around the gym and show them how to use different machines. You said that you would be interested in trying out machines.

Patient: Right.

Physician: And their job is to show you how to do that safely and to show you how to use a variety of muscles, which is a good idea.

Patient: Yes.

Physician: And do you know if there's a pool in that gym?

Patient: I believe there is.

Physician: All right. And you said that you would like swimming.

Patient: Oh, yes.

Physician: If you could put the bathing suit on.

Patient: Yes.

Physician: Okay. Well, that's good. And another thing I'd like to do is I would like to talk further in probably another appointment about the pain in your back. And we might do it here at the doctor's office, or I might have you speak with a physical therapist. I'd really like to make sure that any exercises you do on your back would be okay with your back pain with that prior surgery.

Patient: Oh, yes. Very much so, because I wouldn't want to have to go through the disc operation again.

Physician: Understandably. I hear those are tough.

Physician: Okay. So how about this? Would you like to start exercising as of a few days from now? Would you be ready for that?

Patient: Give me at least a week.

Physician: At least a week?

Patient: Yes.

Physician: Okay. And then what we can do is we can get you back in here or to see the physical therapist within that week. And we can assess your back before you start that exercise program. And also in that week, if you could speak with Lucy and with Bill, your husband, about Bill's going to the gym in Manchester with you and to see how many days a week they'd be interested in going or also what sort of exercises Bill might be interested in if he's not willing or can't go to the gym in Manchester.

Physician: So just to make sure that I explained that clearly, I know I was a little jumbled in what I was saying, could you tell me what we just agreed upon and what you got from that?

Patient: That I'm going to start at the gym that has the pool and go to that and see if my daughter and or my husband would like to do that and or go to the regular gym and have the personal trainer show me some of the bikes and things that they have and how to use them.

Physician: Sure. Good. That sounds good. And so I'll let you talk to your family members and we'll set you up for an appointment within the next week.

Physician: And then I'll let you start on the exercise program in about a week. And how about I make a follow-up appointment with you for a month from now to talk about how it's going.

Patient: Sounds good. Sounds very good.