Physician: So what brings you into the office today?

Patient: Well, I'm wanting to do something with exercise, and I'm not really sure what I want to do or why even to do it.

Physician: Okay. Well, then I'm glad you came in. We can certainly talk about that. Is there anything else that you're concerned about?

Patient: No.

Physician: Great. So then what I'm going to do is I'm going to ask you a few questions to get a medical history and some reasons behind your wanting to do an exercise program, and then we can get into talking about how to start that. Does that sound okay?

Patient: Okay. Sounds great.

Physician: ... So we have more of a starting point to start an exercise routine.

Patient: Okay.

Physician: ... Let's see. Is there anything that you think would stop you from exercising? Anything that you're worried about?

... (physician continues to discuss and set an agenda for an exercise program)

Physician: How about we think about your starting a gym program and talking to your daughter, Lucy, and trying to get her involved in that with you. And seeing if your husband would want to do that, too. And what we could do is we could make some sort of alternating routine. You could spend two or three days a week at the gym with Lucy, and you could spend a few days a week doing something with your husband, another type of exercise, if he isn't able to make it to the gym.

Patient: Sounds good.

Physician: ... And then, say, in a week from now, you can start your exercise routine. And I'll give you a calendar, and on that calendar you could write down which exercises you do each day.

Patient: Okay.

Physician: ... So just to make sure that I explained that clearly, I know I was a little jumbled in what I was saying, could you tell me what we just agreed upon and what you got from that?

Patient: That I'm going to start at the gym that has the pool and go to that and see if my daughter and or my husband would like to do that and or go to the regular gym and have the personal trainer show me some of the bikes and things that they have and how to use them.

Physician: Sure. Good. That sounds good. And so I'll let you talk to your family members and we'll set you up for an appointment within the next week.

Patient: Okay.

Physician: And then I'll let you start on the exercise program in about a week. And how about I make a follow-up appointment with you for a month from now to talk about how it's going.

Patient: Sounds good. Sounds very good.