Physician: So then what I'm going to do is I'm going to ask you a few questions to get a medical history and some reasons behind your wanting to do an exercise program, and then we can get into talking about how to start that. Does that sound okay?

Patient: Okay. Sounds great.

Physician: Good. So how old are you, Velma?

...

Physician: And have you ever had any surgeries?

Patient: Yes. I've had twice surgery.

...

Physician: Let's see. Is there anything that you think would stop you from exercising? Anything that you're worried about?

Patient: Well, I'm kind of leery of going to a gym, although I guess they have the best facility. But since I have the problems and I just don't want to be in a bathing suit, I have horrendous varicose veins, which don't look too nice.

...

Physician: Okay. Well, let's see. How about we think about your starting a gym program and talking to your daughter, Lucy, and trying to get her involved in that with you. And seeing if your husband would want to do that, too.

Patient: Sounds good.

Physician: And do you know if there's a pool in that gym?

Patient: I believe there is.

...

Physician: Okay. So how about this? Would you like to start exercising as of a few days from now? Would you be ready for that?

Patient: Give me at least a week.

...

Physician: And then what we can do is we can get you back in here or to see the physical therapist within that week. And we can assess your back before you start that exercise program.

...

Physician: So just to make sure that I explained that clearly, I know I was a little jumbled in what I was saying, could you tell me what we just agreed upon and what you got from that?

Patient: That I'm going to start at the gym that has the pool and go to that and see if my daughter and or my husband would like to do that and or go to the regular gym and have the personal trainer show me some of the bikes and things that they have and how to use them.

Physician: Sure. Good. That sounds good. And so I'll let you talk to your family members and we'll set you up for an appointment within the next week.

Patient: Okay.

Physician: And then I'll let you start on the exercise program in about a week. And how about I make a follow-up appointment with you for a month from now to talk about how it's going.

Patient: Sounds good. Sounds very good.