Physician: Well, exercise is very good for your heart health, for your lung health, pretty much total body health. Sometimes it can help out with weight loss, which then leads to additional benefits for your heart and the rest of your body, including your joints. So it might be important, especially important, if you have a family history of any of those things, to exercise in order to avoid your getting them. Does that make sense?

Physician: And let's see, so you have a husband who is fairly active, and he's also a teacher. Do you think he would be at all interested in exercising with you?

Physician: We can work with that. Is there anyone else who lives nearby that you think would be willing to exercise with you?

Physician: Okay. Well, let's see. How about we think about your starting a gym program and talking to your daughter, Lucy, and trying to get her involved in that with you. And seeing if your husband would want to do that, too. And what we could do is we could make some sort of alternating routine. You could spend two or three days a week at the gym with Lucy, and you could spend a few days a week doing something with your husband, another type of exercise, if he isn't able to make it to the gym.

Physician: So I think that that could also help, would probably help you to feel more comfortable in a gym as well.

Physician: Okay. Well, that's good. And another thing I'd like to do is I would like to talk further in probably another appointment about the pain in your back. And we might do it here at the doctor's office, or I might have you speak with a physical therapist. I'd really like to make sure that any exercises you do on your back would be okay with your back pain with that prior surgery.

Physician: Okay. So how about this? Would you like to start exercising as of a few days from now? Would you be ready for that?

Physician: And then what we can do is we can get you back in here or to see the physical therapist within that week. And we can assess your back before you start that exercise program. And also in that week, if you could speak with Lucy and with Bill, your husband, about Bill's going to the gym in Manchester with you and to see how many days a week they'd be interested in going or also what sort of exercises Bill might be interested in if he's not willing or can't go to the gym in Manchester. Such as, say, walking around your neighborhood. You could take your dog for a walk.

Physician: Or finding another pool nearby and swimming with you.

Physician: That would be another thing. Or even you could do some exercises in the home too. Some people buy little weights that you can do weight exercises with at home.

Physician: Okay, good. Good, so you're familiar with them.

Physician: And then, say, in a week from now, you can start your exercise routine. And I'll give you a calendar, and on that calendar you could write down which exercises you do each day.

Physician: And that's good for a few reasons. It's good because you can feel good about what you've done. It's always good to look back and see that you've done it.

Physician: And it's so that you could bring it back and we could talk about it and discuss any changes we want to make if you're having any pain or if you want to increase your activity, that sort of thing.

The physician uses simple language to explain the benefits of exercise, creates a plan that the patient is comfortable with, and addresses the patient's concerns about exercising with varicose veins and back pain. The physician also uses examples that the patient can relate to, such as walking the dog or swimming with her husband.