Here are the parts of the conversation where the physician seeks clarification, verification, and specificity of the patient's responses:

Physician: "And do you take anything for it?" 
Patient: "Yeah. Lipitor is it?" 
Physician: "Yeah. And do you know how long you've been on that?" 

Physician: "And when was the last time you saw your doctor?" 
Patient: "About six months ago." 
Physician: "And was everything okay?" 

Physician: "So then what I'm going to do is I'm going to ask you a few questions to get a medical history and some reasons behind your wanting to do an exercise program, and then we can get into talking about how to start that. Does that sound okay?" 

Physician: "And have you ever had any surgeries?" 
Patient: "Yes. I've had twice surgery." 
Physician: "Could you tell me about those?" 

Physician: "And is everything okay as a result of those surgeries?" 

Physician: "Do you take any other medications other than the Lipitor and the Motrin you said once in a while?" 

Physician: "Do you take any vitamins? Any supplements?" 

Physician: "Do you have any allergies?" 

Physician: "So you said that you stopped exercising regularly around the time you were married and had children. When was that?" 
Patient: "Oh, God." 
Physician: "Or how old were you?" 

Physician: "And have you tried, since you were about 25, to start some sort of regular exercise routine?" 

Physician: "Is there anything that you think would stop you from exercising? Anything that you're worried about?" 

Physician: "What does he do? Sorry to interrupt." 

Physician: "And what town do you live in?" 

Physician: "What type of neighborhood do you live in?" 

Physician: "Is there anything that's particularly stressful in your life? Is there something that you worry about?" 

Physician: "And speaking of family, then, if she's had such a serious history of arthritis, that's something to think about for you too." 

Physician: "Does she have any other medical conditions?" 

Physician: "How about your father? Is he still alive?" 

Physician: "And what did he die from?" 

Physician: "And do you think your husband would also be interested in going to the gym in Manchester?" 

Physician: "It would depend upon what time we go." 
Physician: "His schedule. It being a little farther away for him." 

Physician: "So just to make sure that I explained that clearly, I know I was a little jumbled in what I was saying, could you tell me what we just agreed upon and what you got from that?"