Physician: Well, then I'm glad you came in. We can certainly talk about that.

Physician: My guess is that it will.

Physician: Hey, good thing you're here. That sounds good.

Physician: So you are interested in starting an exercise program because you've been a little bit more tired lately and you think it might be due to lack of exercise. And you've thought a little bit about starting a program.

Physician: Good. So you said you stopped exercising regularly around the time you were married and had children. When was that?

Physician: So it's been a little while since you've done regular exercise. And it's great. It sounds like you have been fairly active on and off since that time. So we have more of a starting point to start an exercise routine.

Physician: We'll keep that in mind, too, when we eventually talk about what exactly we should be doing.

Physician: Sounds cool.

Physician: So that could have something to do with what type of exercise program we choose. So what we'll try to do is once we decide on an exercise program, check back with you pretty often so that we make sure your back is okay.

Physician: That's good. That means we could have you get out and walk a little bit.

Physician: Good. Is there anything that's particularly stressful in your life? Is there something that you worry about? Sometimes stressors can have an effect on people's habits, like eating and exercise and all that.

Physician: Now, all of these things are things that exercise can help. Have you heard about the benefits that exercise has?

Physician: Well, exercise is very good for your heart health, for your lung health, pretty much total body health. Sometimes it can help out with weight loss, which then leads to additional benefits for your heart and the rest of your body, including your joints.

Physician: Good. And let's see, so you have a husband who is fairly active, and he's also a teacher. Do you think he would be at all interested in exercising with you?

Physician: I understand that. I would, too.

Physician: Good. We can work with that.

Physician: Okay. So then that's close to your work, too.

Physician: And that might work.

Physician: So we might be able to fit in paying for a gym.

Physician: Okay. Well, let's see. How about we think about your starting a gym program and talking to your daughter, Lucy, and trying to get her involved in that with you.

Physician: And what we could do is we could make some sort of alternating routine. You could spend two or three days a week at the gym with Lucy, and you could spend a few days a week doing something with your husband, another type of exercise, if he isn't able to make it to the gym.

Physician: Okay. Let's see. So at the gym, another benefit is that they often have personal trainers.

Physician: And their job is to show you how to do that safely and to show you how to use a variety of muscles, which is a good idea.

Physician: So I think that that could also help, would probably help you to feel more comfortable in a gym as well.

Physician: Okay. Well, that's good. And another thing I'd like to do is I would like to talk further in probably another appointment about the pain in your back.

Physician: And we might do it here at the doctor's office, or I might have you speak with a physical therapist.

Physician: I'd really like to make sure that any exercises you do on your back would be okay with your back pain with that prior surgery.

Physician: Okay. So how about this? Would you like to start exercising as of a few days from now? Would you be ready for that?

Physician: Okay. And then what we can do is we can get you back in here or to see the physical therapist within that week.

Physician: And we can assess your back before you start that exercise program.

Physician: And also in that week, if you could speak with Lucy and with Bill, your husband, about Bill's going to the gym in Manchester with you and to see how many days a week they'd be interested in going or also what sort of exercises Bill might be interested in if he's not willing or can't go to the gym in Manchester.

Physician: Okay, good. Good, so you're familiar with them.

Physician: And then, say, in a week from now, you can start your exercise routine.

Physician: And I'll give you a calendar, and on that calendar you could write down which exercises you do each day.

Physician: And that's good for a few reasons. It's good because you can feel good about what you've done.

Physician: And it's so that you could bring it back and we could talk about it and discuss any changes we want to make if you're having any pain or if you want to increase your activity, that sort of thing.

Physician: So just to make sure that I explained that clearly, I know I was a little jumbled in what I was saying, could you tell me what we just agreed upon and what you got from that?

Physician: Sure. Good. That sounds good.

Physician: And so I'll let you talk to your family members and we'll set you up for an appointment within the next week.

Physician: And then I'll let you start on the exercise program in about a week.

Physician: And how about I make a follow-up appointment with you for a month from now to talk about how it's going.

Physician: Sounds good. Sounds very good.