Physician: "Is Bill your husband?"
Patient: "Husband, yeah."
Physician: "Okay."
Physician: "What does he do? Sorry to interrupt."
Patient: "He's a high school social studies teacher."
Physician: "And what town? I didn't ask you what town you live in."
Patient: "Winchelux."
Physician: "Okay. So then you're not too far from your work. What type of neighborhood do you live in?"
Patient: "What we consider a very safe neighborhood."
Physician: "That's good. That means we could have you get out and walk a little bit."
Physician: "What is she ill with?"
Patient: "Arthritis. She's crumpled up because of the arthritis."
Physician: "And speaking of family, then, if she's had such a serious history of arthritis, that's something to think about for you too."
Patient: "Yes."
Physician: "Does she have any other medical conditions?"
Patient: "No, just the arthritis."
Physician: "How about your father? Is he still alive?"
Patient: "No, he passed away about 10 years ago."
Physician: "And what did he die from?"
Patient: "Heart attack."
Physician: "Okay. So in your family, then, there's a history of heart attack and some arthritis. And you said you yourself have high cholesterol."
Patient: "Right."
Physician: "Now, all of these things are things that exercise can help. Have you heard about the benefits that exercise has?"
Patient: "Not really."
Physician: "Do you think he would be at all interested in exercising with you?"
Patient: "I think I might be able to get him to exercise with me, yes."
Physician: "And do you think you'd like to exercise with someone, or do you see yourself exercising by yourself?"
Patient: "No, I'd rather have company when I start."
Physician: "I understand that. I would, too. Have you discussed, you know, you said that you haven't discussed an exercise program with him, but you think he might be interested?"
Patient: "Well, I've talked about it, and he said, you know, he would definitely back me on anything I wanted to do."
Physician: "Okay."
Patient: "And I think it would, if I decided I wanted to do ballet dance, I'm sure he wouldn't, you know, want to do that, too."
Physician: "Yeah."
Patient: "So, yeah, but as long as it's within a framework that he can work in, he would go along with me."
Physician: "Good. We can work with that. Is there anyone else who lives nearby that you think would be willing to exercise with you?"
Patient: "Yeah, I kind of mentioned it to my daughter, Lucy, and she goes sporadically to a gym."
Physician: "Okay."
Patient: "So if I could convince her to go more often, she would go with me."
Physician: "And you'd also mentioned that a gym would be something you'd be interested in."
Patient: "Right."
Physician: "Though you mentioned varicose veins. Do you think you'd be less worried about those if your daughter were with you?"
Patient: "Probably."
Physician: "Okay. And does the gym that she'd go to, is that in Manchester where she lives?"
Patient: "Yes, it is."
Physician: "Okay. So then that's close to your work, too."
Patient: "Right."
Physician: "And that might work. Now, gyms can be somewhat of a financial burden. Do you have any financial concerns?"
Patient: "No. I would say we're living comfortably. Well, I've been thinking about retiring, and even if I retire and we lose that, it would still be okay."
Physician: "It would be okay."
Patient: "Yeah."
Physician: "So we might be able to fit in paying for a gym. And do you have insurance?"
Patient: "Yeah, through my husband's work."
Physician: "And do you think your husband would also be interested in going to the gym in Manchester?"
Patient: "It would depend upon what time we go."
Physician: "His schedule. It being a little farther away for him. Okay. Well, let's see. How about we think about your starting a gym program and talking to your daughter, Lucy, and trying to get her involved in that with you. And seeing if your husband would want to do that, too. And what we could do is we could make some sort of alternating routine. You could spend two or three days a week at the gym with Lucy, and you could spend a few days a week doing something with your husband, another type of exercise, if he isn't able to make it to the gym."
Patient: "Sounds good."
Physician: "Okay. Let's see. So at the gym, another benefit is that they often have personal trainers. And what they do is for a first visit at the gym, gyms usually give the new client, say, an hour or so with a personal trainer to walk them around the gym and show them how to use different machines. You said that you would be interested in trying out machines."
Patient: "Right."
Physician: "And their job is to show you how to do that safely and to show you how to use a variety of muscles, which is a good idea."
Patient: "Yes."
Physician: "So I think that that could also help, would probably help you to feel more comfortable in a gym as well."
Patient: "Yes."
Physician: "And do you know if there's a pool in that gym?"
Patient: "I believe there is."
Physician: "All right. And you said that you would like swimming."
Patient: "Oh, yes."
Physician: "If you could put the bathing suit on."
Patient: "Yes."
Physician: "Okay. Well, that's good. And another thing I'd like to do is I would like to talk further in probably another appointment about the pain in your back. And we might do it here at the doctor's office, or I might have you speak with a physical therapist. I'd really like to make sure that any exercises you do on your back would be okay with your back pain with that prior surgery."
Patient: "Oh, yes. Very much so, because I wouldn't want to have to go through the disc operation again."
Physician: "Understandably. I hear those are tough."
Patient: "Yes."
Physician: "Okay. So how about this? Would you like to start exercising as of a few days from now? Would you be ready for that?"
Patient: "Give me at least a week."
Physician: "At least a week?"
Patient: "Yes."
Physician: "Okay. And then what we can do is we can get you back in here or to see the physical therapist within that week. And we can assess your back before you start that exercise program. And also in that week, if you could speak with Lucy and with Bill, your husband, about Bill's going to the gym in Manchester with you and to see how many days a week they'd be interested in going or also what sort of exercises Bill might be interested in if he's not willing or can't go to the gym in Manchester. Such as, say, walking around your neighborhood. You could take your dog for a walk."
Patient: "Yes."
Physician: "Or finding another pool nearby and swimming with you."
Patient: "Oh."
Physician: "That would be another thing. Or even you could do some exercises in the home too. Some people buy little weights that you can do weight exercises with at home."
Patient: "Okay. Yeah, I've seen those in the stores."
Physician: "Okay, good. Good, so you're familiar with them."
Patient: "Right."
Physician: "And then, say, in a week from now, you can start your exercise routine. And I'll give you a calendar, and on that calendar you could write down which exercises you do each day."
Patient: "Okay."
Physician: "And that's good for a few reasons. It's good because you can feel good about what you've done. It's always good to look back and see that you've done it."
Patient: "Right."
Physician: "And it's so that you could bring it back and we could talk about it and discuss any changes we want to make if you're having any pain or if you want to increase your activity, that sort of thing."
Patient: "Okay, that sounds great."
Physician: "So just to make sure that I explained that clearly, I know I was a little jumbled in what I was saying, could you tell me what we just agreed upon and what you got from that?"
Patient: "That I'm going to start at the gym that has the pool and go to that and see if my daughter and or my husband would like to do that and or go to the regular gym and have the personal trainer show me some of the bikes and things that they have and how to use them."
Physician: "Sure. Good. That sounds good. And so I'll let you talk to your family members and we'll set you up for an appointment within the next week."
Patient: "Okay."
Physician: "And then I'll let you start on the exercise program in about a week. And how about I make a follow-up appointment with you for a month from now to talk about how it's going."
Patient: "Sounds good. Sounds very good."
Physician: "Okay. So I'm going to go get the doctor and you can sit here for a few minutes and we'll be back in to discuss."
Patient: "Okay. All right."
Physician: "It was nice to meet you."
Patient: "Nice meeting you."