Physician: "Okay. Well, then I'm glad you came in. We can certainly talk about that."

Physician: "My guess is that it will."

Physician: "Hey, good thing you're here. That sounds good."

Physician: "Good. It sounds like you have been fairly active on and off since that time. So we have more of a starting point to start an exercise routine."

Physician: "We'll keep that in mind, too, when we eventually talk about what exactly we should be doing."

Physician: "That's good. That means we could have you get out and walk a little bit."

Physician: "Good. So you said you live in a condo. And what town? I didn't ask you what town you live in."

Physician: "That's good. And another thing I'd like to do is I would like to talk further in probably another appointment about the pain in your back."

Physician: "Understandably. I hear those are tough."

Physician: "Okay. Well, that's good. And another thing I'd like to do is I would like to talk further in probably another appointment about the pain in your back."

Physician: "Okay. So how about this? Would you like to start exercising as of a few days from now? Would you be ready for that?"

Physician: "Okay. And then what we can do is we can get you back in here or to see the physical therapist within that week."

Physician: "And then, say, in a week from now, you can start your exercise routine. And I'll give you a calendar, and on that calendar you could write down which exercises you do each day."

Physician: "And that's good for a few reasons. It's good because you can feel good about what you've done. It's always good to look back and see that you've done it."

Physician: "And it's so that you could bring it back and we could talk about it and discuss any changes we want to make if you're having any pain or if you want to increase your activity, that sort of thing."

Physician: "Sure. Good. That sounds good. And so I'll let you talk to your family members and we'll set you up for an appointment within the next week."

Physician: "And then I'll let you start on the exercise program in about a week. And how about I make a follow-up appointment with you for a month from now to talk about how it's going."

Physician: "Okay. So I'm going to go get the doctor and you can sit here for a few minutes and we'll be back in to discuss."

Physician: "It was nice to meet you."