Physician: "Is Mrs. Paulton how you'd like to be addressed?"

Physician: "So, I just wanted to start by figuring out why you're here today."

Physician: "Is there anything else that you want to make sure we address today before we talk more about that pain?"

Physician: "Is there anything else you can think of that you want to make sure we don't miss today?"

Physician: "Does that sound okay?"

Physician: "Can you tell me a little bit more about the pain? Where it's located?"

Physician: "Did it move anywhere?"

Physician: "What kind of pain was it?"

Physician: "Have you ever had a pain like that before?"

Physician: "If you had to qualify it or quantify it on a scale where zero is no pain and ten is the worst thing ever, where would you put it?"

Physician: "Anything make the pain better?"

Physician: "What did you try?"

Physician: "How much Tylenol did you take?"

Physician: "Extra strength or regular?"

Physician: "But that didn't seem to do much?"

Physician: "And walking around didn't seem to do much either?"

Physician: "Does anything seem to make it worse?"

Physician: "Are there any other medicines that you take on a regular basis?"

Physician: "Anything over-the-counter?"

Physician: "How many Tums do you take?"

Physician: "Well, that's kind of a lot. How come so many?"

Physician: "Have you been told that you had osteoporosis?"

Physician: "Anybody in your family have osteoporosis?"

Physician: "Were there any other symptoms that you noticed at the same time as you had this pain?"

Physician: "Were you ever able to go?"

Physician: "And was there anything unusual about the urine?"

Physician: "And have you ever seen that kind of color of urine before?"

Physician: "Did you ever feel any nausea?"

Physician: "Did you have any vomiting?"

Physician: "How about any changes in your bowels in the last few days or today?"

Physician: "And it wasn't diarrhea?"

Physician: "About your menstrual history, are you currently having menses?"

Physician: "When was the last time?"

Physician: "Have you had any vaginal discharge at all?"

Physician: "Anything like that? All right. And have you had a fever that you know of?"

Physician: "About in terms of your diet, anything new in terms of your diet, eating more protein than normal or anything?"

Physician: "How about fluid intake? What do you normally drink during the day?"

Physician: "So maybe you've been drinking a little less than normal?"

Physician: "Have you had any pain with urinating?"

Physician: "Does that sound like a reasonable summary? Anything I missed?"

Physician: "Are there any medical problems that you're being treated for?"

Physician: "Have you been in the hospital at all?"

Physician: "Were they normal vaginal births or something?"

Physician: "And any surgeries?"

Physician: "How about medications? We already talked about the Tums that you're taking. You've taken some Tylenol. Do you take any other medicines?"

Physician: "And do you have any allergies?"

Physician: "To medicines or foods?"

Physician: "Environmental allergies?"

Physician: "Is there anything that runs in your family? Any kinds of diseases?"

Physician: "Has anyone in your family ever had renal failure or renal calculi that you know of?"

Physician: "Do you smoke at all?"

Physician: "Have you ever smoked?"

Physician: "How about alcohol? Do you drink alcohol?"

Physician: "How much do you think you normally drink?"

Physician: "If you had to say number of times per week or per month, about how many times?"

Physician: "Have you ever done any other kinds of recreational drugs?"

Physician: "Are you sexually active?"

Physician: "With?"

Physician: "Any other partners?"

Physician: "And have you had any pain with sexual intercourse?"

Physician: "Does that sound okay?"

Physician: "Is there anything that you wanted to ask me? Any questions that you have?"