Physician: "So what I'm going to do is I'm going to ask you a few questions to get a medical history and some reasons behind your wanting to do an exercise program, and then we can get into talking about how to start that. Does that sound okay?"

Patient: "Okay. Sounds great."

Physician: "Well, let's see. So at the gym, another benefit is that they often have personal trainers. And what they do is for a first visit at the gym, gyms usually give the new client, say, an hour or so with a personal trainer to walk them around the gym and show them how to use different machines. You said that you would be interested in trying out machines."

Patient: "Right."

Physician: "And their job is to show you how to do that safely and to show you how to use a variety of muscles, which is a good idea."

Patient: "Yes."

Physician: "So I think that that could also help, would probably help you to feel more comfortable in a gym as well."

Patient: "Yes."

Physician: "Okay. So how about this? Would you like to start exercising as of a few days from now? Would you be ready for that?"

Patient: "Give me at least a week."

Physician: "At least a week?"

Patient: "Yes."

Physician: "Okay. And then what we can do is we can get you back in here or to see the physical therapist within that week. And we can assess your back before you start that exercise program. And also in that week, if you could speak with Lucy and with Bill, your husband, about Bill's going to the gym in Manchester with you and to see how many days a week they'd be interested in going or also what sort of exercises Bill might be interested in if he's not willing or can't go to the gym in Manchester. Such as, say, walking around your neighborhood. You could take your dog for a walk."

Patient: "Yes."

Physician: "Or finding another pool nearby and swimming with you."

Patient: "Oh."

Physician: "That would be another thing. Or even you could do some exercises in the home too. Some people buy little weights that you can do weight exercises with at home."

Patient: "Okay. Yeah, I've seen those in the stores."

Physician: "Okay, good. Good, so you're familiar with them."

Patient: "Right."

Physician: "And then, say, in a week from now, you can start your exercise routine. And I'll give you a calendar, and on that calendar you could write down which exercises you do each day."

Patient: "Okay."

Physician: "And that's good for a few reasons. It's good because you can feel good about what you've done. It's always good to look back and see that you've done it."

Patient: "Right."

Physician: "And it's so that you could bring it back and we could talk about it and discuss any changes we want to make if you're having any pain or if you want to increase your activity, that sort of thing."

Patient: "Okay, that sounds great."