Physician: "Sometimes there's a correlation during your second trimester, which you're just starting, between gingivitis and pregnancy. So sometimes this gum disease is brought on by some hormonal changes that are going on in your body."

Patient: "I didn't know that anything about my pregnancy lead this bleeding. Can you explain a little slow?"

Physician: "Sure. No problem. When you're pregnant, your body is producing hormones such as estrogen and progesterone in high levels."

Physician: "And when your mouth is not ideally clean, there's plaque on your teeth. In that plaque, there's bacteria."

Physician: "Sometimes the body's response against the bacteria with the hormones can be inflammation and can cause gingivitis."

Physician: "When you eliminate that plaque by brushing and flossing and having dental cleanings during your pregnancy, there will be no gingivitis."

Physician: "And actually, if you do not take care of this and you have plaque and gingivitis during your pregnancy, there has been research that's shown that that can lead to early birth, preterm birth, and low birth weight."

Physician: "So there's pretty strong evidence to suggest there is a correlation between the two."

Patient: "So if I have some gum bleeding, that's the older case has some gingivirus infection or maybe I have some other problem."

Physician: "It is an infection being that there is bacteria involved and the body is kind of responding against that bacteria, but it's nothing that you need antibiotics for. It's something that can be taken care of with good oral hygiene, brushing twice a day, flossing once a day."

Physician: "You take the vitamin only? Mm-hmm. And this tea, is it commonly done in your culture, in your Korean, correct?"

Patient: "Yeah."

Physician: "Okay. What is generally done during the pregnancy in terms of beliefs that are thought to be good for the baby, to keep the baby healthy?"

Patient: "Yeah. We have several options. Like I say, some friends take some medicine before pregnancy to help the wounds and everything, which I didn't. But another option is when you have some sign of miscarriage or something, then you can drink some kind of medicine or tea. But what I'm doing now is I put on some girdles, two kind of band-aid thing, to tighten up my belly to prevent my fetus getting fatter."

Physician: "Okay."

Physician: "So it's going to help the baby's getting, not getting, but it's kind of smaller, instead of the chubby baby. And at the same time, it's going to prevent my belly is not too huge, so it's going to maintain my body figure."

Physician: "Okay. So you don't want to get, in your culture, too big, and you want to keep the baby size smaller when you have the baby."

Patient: "Mm-hmm."

Patient: "Just I try to gargle with salt, but I don't know why this bleeding happened suddenly. So that's why I came here. And then I'm afraid to take any other medicine because I don't like to hurt my baby."

Physician: "Yeah, I can completely understand that you don't want to put chemicals in your body with your belief system and whatnot during the pregnancy. But I think if we weigh the risks and benefits, I think it's less risky for the baby, with the research that we know about, to have some anesthetic if you need a deep cleaning, have some anesthetic put in your mouth, and have the cleaning done to decrease the amount of gingivitis in your mouth."

Patient: "As long as that anesthesia doesn't affect my baby, then I don't have any problem. But, yeah, could you make sure that anesthesia doesn't affect the baby?"

Physician: "Sure. When we give you the anesthesia, we will keep it just in the area of your mouth that we're working on, and we'll try to give you as little as possible to make it effective."

Patient: "Okay."

Physician: "We'll make you nice and comfortable, and we'll give you the anesthesia. We'll do the cleaning, and the anesthesia should wear off within three or four hours."

Patient: "Do you have some scientific evidence it's safe?"

Physician: "Yes, we have a lot of scientific evidence that anesthetic is safe. There are certain instances that have been described in the past where people have reacted poorly to the anesthetic, but there's no evidence currently that's linking getting dental anesthesia, such as lidocaine or novocaine, as you know it, to any harmful effects on the child."

Patient: "Okay. A child or a fetus?"

Physician: "The fetus. Okay. Excuse me."

Patient: "Okay."

Physician: "So do you understand everything that I'm telling you about? Could you just tell me what you think that I'm telling you, just so we're both on the same page?"

Patient: "Mm-hmm. Yeah, as long as you have a strong scientific evidence it's not going to affect the fetus, then, yeah, I think I'm going to consider to take maybe."

Physician: "Mm-hmm."

Patient: "Yeah."

Physician: "Okay."

Patient: "My confidence level is reaching to the highest."

Physician: "Excellent. Yeah. Generally, who do you consult with for your health decisions? Do you have someone, like, are you married? Do you have any family members other than your husband? I see that you're wearing a wedding ring. Do you have any family members other than your husband that you would consult for your health care decisions?"

Patient: "Usually I'm generally healthy, so not much to discuss with, but I live with my husband and parents-in-law."

Physician: "Okay."

Patient: "But this case I mentioned to my husband I have some gum bleeding, and he said, why don't you go to the dental clinic?"

Physician: "Okay."

Patient: "That's the only time because, as I say, not much complication go with me."

Physician: "Mm-hmm."

Patient: "So hopefully this episode can clear without any complication."

Physician: "Absolutely. We can certainly take care of that for you."