Physician: "Sometimes there's a correlation during your second trimester, which you're just starting, between gingivitis and pregnancy. So sometimes this gum disease is brought on by some hormonal changes that are going on in your body."

Physician: "Sure. No problem. When you're pregnant, your body is producing hormones such as estrogen and progesterone in high levels."

Physician: "And when your mouth is not ideally clean, there's plaque on your teeth. In that plaque, there's bacteria."

Physician: "Sometimes the body's response against the bacteria with the hormones can be inflammation and can cause gingivitis."

Physician: "When you eliminate that plaque by brushing and flossing and having dental cleanings during your pregnancy, there will be no gingivitis."

Physician: "It is an infection being that there is bacteria involved and the body is kind of responding against that bacteria, but it's nothing that you need antibiotics for. It's something that can be taken care of with good oral hygiene, brushing twice a day, flossing once a day."

Physician: "Oh, if you can do it once in the morning and once at night, that's fine, and we'll talk about the proper techniques a little later in the visit."

Physician: "Okay, you're going to want to do that once a day before you go to bed at least. Ideally, you want to do it after every meal."

Physician: "But it looks right now just to be gingivitis, which is basically inflammation of the gums. And what we're going to do is give you a full dental cleaning."

Physician: "I think if we weigh the risks and benefits, I think it's less risky for the baby, with the research that we know about, to have some anesthetic if you need a deep cleaning, have some anesthetic put in your mouth, and have the cleaning done to decrease the amount of gingivitis in your mouth."

Physician: "Right, exactly. Obviously, it's your decision whether or not you want to postpone it or not. But I'm highly recommending that you have it done now, during your second trimester, which you're just entering into. Because, like I said, there is a relationship between having the gum disease and low birth weight and premature birth. There's a high association between the two."

Physician: "Sure. When we do deep cleanings, we generally divide your mouth into four quadrants. And generally, at each visit, we do one of the four quadrants. So that would require that you come in for four different visits."

Physician: "Certainly, we can evaluate. We have to have you come in for a periodontal exam, which we might be able to do later in this visit, depending on if we have time."

Physician: "Sure. When we give you the anesthesia, we will keep it just in the area of your mouth that we're working on, and we'll try to give you as little as possible to make it effective."

Physician: "We'll make you nice and comfortable, and we'll give you the anesthesia. We'll do the cleaning, and the anesthesia should wear off within three or four hours."

Physician: "Yes, we have a lot of scientific evidence that anesthetic is safe. There are certain instances that have been described in the past where people have reacted poorly to the anesthetic, but there's no evidence currently that's linking getting dental anesthesia, such as lidocaine or novocaine, as you know it, to any harmful effects on the child."

Physician: "The fetus. Okay. Excuse me."

Physician: "So do you understand everything that I'm telling you about? Could you just tell me what you think that I'm telling you, just so we're both on the same page?"

Physician: "Absolutely. We can certainly take care of that for you."

Physician: "But it looks like to me that a lot of this is from a preexisting condition that you had. You had some gum disease, and it looks like the pregnancy and the hormones that go along with pregnancy are kind of exacerbating the gum disease."

Physician: "Sure. So I'm just going to tell you what our overall plan is. What we're going to do is we'll, I think we have time now, we're going to do a complete periodontal exam on you."

Physician: "At that time, we'll be able to tell exactly how many visits you need to come in for."

Physician: "And then one visit for each quadrant that we decide you need a deep cleaning on."

Physician: "That can be between anywhere from one to four visits."

Physician: "Okay? So the most amount of visits that we're looking at is five."

Physician: "The least amount is one."

Physician: "But the number probably lies somewhere in between."

Physician: "So we'll be able to tell you that at the end of today's visit."