Physician: "Okay, so I'd like to just talk with you for a little bit before the doctor comes in about what brings you in. Is that okay?"

Physician: "Oh, I'm really sorry to hear about that. Can you tell me a little bit about that?"

Physician: "Okay, and is there anything that makes the pain better?"

Physician: "Okay, do you know what the dose is of the Advil?"

Physician: "Okay, anything else that makes your pain better?"

Physician: "Okay, and you said lifting makes it worse."

Physician: "Okay, do you lift on a regular basis or did you notice it somehow?"

Physician: "Okay, so you mentioned a couple days. It's been going on for how long now?"

Physician: "Two nights ago. Okay, and is it getting better or worse over time?"

Physician: "About the same. Okay, and you're gonna be going back to work tomorrow, you said?"

Physician: "Okay, and you lift boxes at work?"

Physician: "Okay, and do you think your boss would be okay with you taking some time off if you needed to?"

Physician: "Okay, I'll see if I can do that for you. Do you have any other symptoms besides the pain in your chest?"

Physician: "Okay, like any coughing, any shortness of breath?"

Physician: "Nothing like that? Okay. So I'd just like to summarize a little bit. So it sounds like you've had chest pain for two days now. Sometimes it's an ache, sometimes it's sharp. It's made worse if you're lifting things and you're worried because at work you lift boxes. It's made better by Advil. You said you've taken like two in the morning, two in the afternoon. That seems to help. You're not sure what the dose is on that. And it doesn't radiate anywhere. You have no other symptoms with that. Does that sound about right?"

Physician: "Okay. In terms of your past medical history, do you have any ongoing medical problems?"

Physician: "Nothing serious? Okay. Do you take any medicines on a daily basis?"

Physician: "Okay. Do you know what it is that you take for your allergies?"

Physician: "Flonase. Okay. Any other vitamins or supplements that you take?"

Physician: "Okay. And how much fish oil are you taking?"

Physician: "Okay. And why is it that you take fish oil?"

Physician: "Okay. How long have you been doing that for?"

Physician: "Okay. And you mentioned you have allergies. Is that seasonal allergies?"

Physician: "Okay. Any other allergies that you have?"

Physician: "Okay. Have you ever had surgery before?"

Physician: "Have you ever been hospitalized or been to the emergency room?"

Physician: "No? Okay. And how about your family history? Can you tell me a little bit about that?"

Physician: "Oh, okay. So you said she grew up with diabetes so she's had diabetes for a long time."

Physician: "Does she use insulin for that?"

Physician: "Okay. And you said she also had a heart surgery?"

Physician: "Oh, okay. Anyone else in your family with diabetes?"

Physician: "Anyone else in your family with heart problems?"

Physician: "No? Okay. So just to summarize your past medical history, it sounds like you're pretty healthy. You just have seasonal allergies in the fall. And you said you take Flonase for that?"

Physician: "Yep. And then you said you've been taking fish oil for the past several years for heart health."

Physician: "And you haven't been hospitalized or anything like that. And your mom has diabetes for which she uses insulin."

Physician: "And she's had surgery on her heart valves in the past. Okay. So in terms of your social history, we talked about your work. You lift boxes. Can you tell me about your living situation?"

Physician: "Okay. And do you have any family or friends in the area?"

Physician: "Okay. And do you have any friends or significant other?"

Physician: "Okay. So do you think that you could look to your girlfriend in a time of need for her to help you out if you were sick or anything like that?"

Physician: "Okay. Well, that's understandable. And in terms of other recreational activities, what do you like to do in your free time?"

Physician: "You like to mountain bike. Okay. Have you been mountain biking recently?"

Physician: "Oh, okay. So you're mountain biking and what happened with that with the chest pain?"

Physician: "Oh, I see. Okay. So you hit your chest when you were mountain biking and your chest pain started after that."

Physician: "Okay. And in terms of other things that you do in your free time, do you drink any alcohol?"

Physician: "On the weekends. Okay. How much do you drink on the weekends?"

Physician: "Okay. And so you were mountain biking on the weekend and you drink on the weekend. Had you been drinking at the time when you were mountain biking?"

Physician: "Okay. Do you think that that affected you at all?"

Physician: "Okay. Have you ever been injured when drinking in the past?"

Physician: "Okay. And do you smoke any cigarettes?"

Physician: "Okay. And do you use any drugs?"

Physician: "You don't. Okay. So it sounds like you, we already talked about your job and you lift boxes at work and your free time you like to mountain bike and you do drink about a six pack of beer on the weekends and you have been drinking and mountain biking at the same time. And this past weekend you were mountain biking when your chest pain started because you fell off your mountain bike."

Physician: "Okay. And you mentioned you also occasionally smoke cigarettes and you don't use any drugs. Is that correct?"

Physician: "Okay. So it sounds like there's a possibility that your chest pain could be related to the mountain biking incident. And I will talk with my doctor and you can wait here. I'll be back in a few minutes."