Here are the relevant quotes from the conversation where the physician discussed the diagnosis/prognosis and negotiated a plan with the patient:

Physician: "So now we can actually form a plan together as to how you're going to go about quitting smoking. So the first thing that's a really good idea is to actually pick a date. So it could be an upcoming birthday, or it could be any day that you see suitable. Do you have anything in mind in particular?"

Patient: "Well, I'm ready to stop any time, but I don't know. I wanted to ask your recommendation about that."

Physician: "Yeah, and I think the fact last two times you tried to quit were you went cold turkey."

Patient: "Right."

Physician: "That is very difficult. It's very difficult to give up a habit that you've had for quite a number of years. So I would suggest giving yourself like a week or two and picking a day."

Physician: "So why don't we pick a date in two weeks from now? So two weeks from today, we'll say that's your quit date."

Patient: "Sure."

Physician: "And we can definitely give you a calendar so it will be easy to track."

Patient: "Okay, that will help."

Physician: "So the day before you want to clear everything. Just throw everything away, ashtrays, cigarettes, everything I had mentioned. And you mentioned you're smoking from the morning until the time you're going to sleep, so your sheets probably absorb that smell. So it's probably a good idea to wash bed sheets and kind of make yourself resistant to temptation."

Physician: "Luckily, considering the financial hardships that you're facing right now, Pfizer actually has a program where they can actually sponsor the prescription for you. So they'll pay everything. They'll take into consideration your salary and the fact that you don't have insurance, and they'll pay for your prescription, and all you have to do is pick it up."

Physician: "So we can definitely discuss that and going about applying for the Pfizer program. Okay. The other thing that patients sometimes are offered is the option to have a contract and a calendar."

Physician: "Okay. So from everything that we've discussed, I just want to make sure that I've said things clearly and that I haven't misspoke. Would you be able to repeat back the plan that we've come up with?"

Patient: "Okay. So I'm picking a date, which is two weeks from today, to be my last day of smoking. And before that day, I'm going to try to remove anything that reminds me of smoking, you know, ashtrays and cigarettes and try to wash my sheets and clean up my car and things like that."

Physician: "Good."

Patient: "And we're going to try this drug, the Shantix, which I can get through Pfizer, so we have to do some paperwork for that. And also I'm going to tell my family and my friends that I'm going to try to quit smoking now and try to avoid friends who smoke at places where I normally smoke. And I'll sign a contract and have a calendar to remind me of my commitment."