"All right, so tell me a little bit about what brought you to the office today."

"Oh, I'm really sorry to hear about that. Can you tell me a little bit about that?"

"Oh, okay. And what makes it sharp?"

"Okay, and is there anything that makes the pain better?"

"Okay, how much Advil are you taking?"

"Okay, do you know what the dose is of the Advil?"

"Okay, anything else that makes your pain better?"

"Okay, do you lift on a regular basis or did you notice it somehow?"

"Okay, so you mentioned a couple days. It's been going on for how long now?"

"Two nights ago. Okay, and is it getting better or worse over time?"

"About the same. Okay, and you're gonna be going back to work tomorrow, you said?"

"Okay, and you lift boxes at work?"

"Okay, and do you think your boss would be okay with you taking some time off if you needed to?"

"Okay, do you have any other symptoms besides the pain in your chest?"

"Okay, like any coughing, any shortness of breath?"

"In terms of your past medical history, do you have any ongoing medical problems?"

"Nothing serious? Okay. Do you take any medicines on a daily basis?"

"Okay. Do you know what it is that you take for your allergies?"

"Okay. Any other vitamins or supplements that you take?"

"Okay. And how much fish oil are you taking?"

"Okay. And why is it that you take fish oil?"

"Okay. How long have you been doing that for?"

"Okay. And you mentioned you have allergies. Is that seasonal allergies?"

"Okay. Any other allergies that you have?"

"Okay. Have you ever had surgery before?"

"Have you ever been hospitalized or been to the emergency room?"

"No? Okay. And how about your family history? Can you tell me a little bit about that?"

"Oh, okay. So you said she grew up with diabetes so she's had diabetes for a long time."

"Does she use insulin for that?"

"Okay. And you said she also had a heart surgery?"

"Oh, okay. Anyone else in your family with diabetes?"

"Anyone else in your family with heart problems?"

"So in terms of your social history, we talked about your work. You lift boxes. Can you tell me about your living situation?"

"Okay. And do you have any family or friends in the area?"

"Okay. And do you have any friends or significant other?"

"Okay. So do you think that you could look to your girlfriend in a time of need for her to help you out if you were sick or anything like that?"

"Okay. Well, that's understandable. And in terms of other recreational activities, what do you like to do in your free time?"

"You like to mountain bike. Okay. Have you been mountain biking recently?"

"Oh, okay. So you're mountain biking and what happened with that with the chest pain?"

"Oh, I see. Okay. So you hit your chest when you were mountain biking and your chest pain started after that."

"Okay. And in terms of other things that you do in your free time, do you drink any alcohol?"

"On the weekends. Okay. How much do you drink on the weekends?"

"Okay. And so you were mountain biking on the weekend and you drink on the weekend. Had you been drinking at the time when you were mountain biking?"

"Okay. Do you think that that affected you at all?"

"Okay. Have you ever been injured when drinking in the past?"

"Okay. And do you smoke any cigarettes?"

"Okay. And do you use any drugs?"