Physician: "So what brings you in today?"
Patient: "Well, I had an episode last night where I had really bad pain, low down in my belly."
Physician: "Can you start from the beginning and really tell me everything you can remember about when it started?"
Patient: "Sure. It woke me up last night a little after, I'd say about 1 o'clock. And it was an awful, I don't know, I want to say like tearing pain. So I got up. I kind of walked around. Woke up my husband. And, I don't know, it just didn't get any better. It was awful."
Physician: "So it woke you up out of sleep."
Patient: "Right."
Physician: "Can you tell me more about the pain? It was a tearing pain."
Patient: "Yeah. I think it's one of the worst pains I've had in my life."
Physician: "And where was it?"
Patient: "Down low on my right side of my abdomen."
Physician: "And did it move anywhere?"
Patient: "Yeah, sometimes it would move down into my groin area."
Physician: "Okay. All right. So you tried to walk around. That didn't seem to help."
Patient: "Right."
Physician: "Anything you did to try to help it?"
Patient: "I did try some Tylenol."
Physician: "Okay."
Patient: "And, I don't know, after half an hour or so, I really didn't feel any difference. I don't think it helped."
Physician: "Okay. So this was about 1 in the morning."
Patient: "Mm-hmm."
Physician: "What did you do then? What happened next?"
Patient: "Oh, I actually got back into bed. I tried curling up. That really didn't help. And then I felt like I had to pee. So I would go into the bathroom, and I'd try to go, but only little teeny amounts would come out. So I'd get up again, and I'd pace, and, you know, the pain was bad. And then I'd go back in again, try to pee again, and, you know, very small amounts would come out."
Physician: "Sounds like it was a long morning for you."
Patient: "Yeah, if not most of the night."
Physician: "Okay. How long did the pain last?"
Patient: "Well, it was very strange."
Physician: "I’m assuming you don't have it now."
Patient: "No, I don't have it now."
Patient: "Okay. I'd say a little before 5 o'clock this morning, all of a sudden, the pain went away."
Physician: "Hmm."
Patient: "And I was peeing, and a lot of urine came out."
Physician: "Okay."
Patient: "And I felt good."
Physician: "Okay. Was there anything different about the urine that came out?"
Patient: "I did notice it was a little bit brown colored."
Physician: "Okay. Is that something that you've seen before?"
Patient: "No, that's new."
Physician: "Okay. And while this was going on, while the pain was going on, was it constant? Did it come and go, or was it really constant for those hours?"
Patient: "It was pretty constant."
Physician: "Okay. Yeah. Any other symptoms that you felt at the same time?"
Patient: "Yeah, I remember feeling pretty nauseous."
Physician: "Okay."
Patient: "And then sweaty."
Physician: "Okay. And did those symptoms last throughout with the pain as well, or did they come and go?"
Patient: "They started after the pain started, but they were pretty much there the whole time."
Physician: "Okay. Have you had any changes in your bowels?"
Patient: "No."
Physician: "Like diarrhea, constipation?"
Physician: "No."
Physician: "Okay. All right. And do you still get your menses?"
Patient: "No."
Physician: "Okay. And how long has it been since you got your period?"
Patient: "I would say it's been a good year and a half."
Physician: "So it's been a while."
Patient: "Mm-hmm."
Physician: "Okay. And did you have any vomiting?"
Patient: "No."
Physician: "Okay. And along with the sensation of having to pee and not being able to pee, was there any pain when you were able to pee?"
Patient: "It wasn't painful when I was peeing. It's just that I couldn't get the pee out."
Physician: "Right."
Patient: "I mean, just small amounts. For so long."
Physician: "Okay. I just want to move on now and ask you some more questions about your health."