Physician: So, I just wanted to start by figuring out why you're here today.

Patient: Well, I had an episode last night where I had really bad pain low in my belly.

Physician: Okay. Can you tell me a little bit more about the pain? Where it's located?

Patient: It was right down here. My right side.

Physician: Okay. Did it move anywhere?

Patient: It kind of. It started right there, but then it went down into my groin area.

Physician: Okay. All right. What kind of pain was it?

Patient: It was really bad. I would call it maybe tearing pain.

Physician: Okay. That must have been scary.

Patient: It was awful, yeah. Very frightening.

Physician: Have you ever had a pain like that before?

Patient: No. Never.

Physician: Okay. If you had to qualify it or quantify it on a scale where zero is no pain and ten is the worst thing ever, where would you put it?

Patient: I would say pretty bad. Maybe a ten.

Physician: Okay. And you said the pain does radiate a little bit. It moves into your groin a little bit. 

Patient: Mm-hmm

Physician: Okay. Anything make the pain better?

Patient: I tried a bunch of things, but I don't think it really made it any better.

Physician: Okay. What did you try?

Patient: Well, when it woke me up, I got out of bed. I kind of paced around. I tried some Tylenol.

Physician: Okay. How much Tylenol did you take?

Patient: I took two tablets.

Physician: Okay. Extra strength or regular?

Patient: I think it was regular strength.

Physician: Okay. But that didn't seem to do much?

Patient: No. 

Physician: And walking around didn't seem to do much either?

Patient: No. 

Physician: Okay. Does anything seem to make it worse?

Patient: I don't think so. It was just kind of there.

Physician: Okay. I just want to jump back to the pain now so I wouldn't get the whole story about that. Were there any other symptoms that you noticed at the same time as you had this pain?

Patient: Yeah. I kept having, feeling like I had to pee.

Physician: Okay. 

Patient: So I would get up, I'd go to the bathroom, and a little bit would come out, and then I'd get up again, and I'd walk around, whatever, and then I'd feel like I'd have to go again, and just a little bit would come out.

Physician: Okay. Were you ever able to go?

Patient: Yeah. Very early this morning, I'd say it must have been about almost five o'clock.

Physician: Okay. 

Patient: All of a sudden, I peed a lot.

Physician: Okay. All right. And was there anything unusual about the urine?

Patient: Yeah. It was kind of, I don't know, brownish color.

Physician: Okay. All right. And have you ever seen that kind of color of urine before?

Patient: No.

Physician: Okay. Just a couple other questions about when you were having the pain. Did you ever feel any nausea?

Patient: Yeah, I was nauseous off and on. Yeah.

Physician: Okay. Did you have any vomiting?

Patient: No.

Physician: Okay. How about any changes in your bowels in the last few days or today?

Patient: I went yesterday like normal, and this morning.

Physician: Okay. All right. And it wasn't diarrhea?

Patient: No.

Physician: Okay. So I just want to kind of summarize what you've told me so far since I jumped around a little bit and make sure that I got everything right. If anything's wrong, let me know for sure, or if we forgot anything.

Patient: Okay

Physician: Okay. So you've had this pain that woke you up out of sleep this morning. It was really severe, tearing pain in your right side, about a 10 out of 10, really one of the worst pains you've ever had. Moves into your groin a little bit, and you tried to walk around, took some Tylenol, nothing really helped to make it any better. And at the same time, you also had this feeling that you had to pee, and you tried to pee and weren't able to pass any urine until later this morning when you finally were able to pass some urine, but you noticed it was kind of a funny reddish color. And at the same time, you had some nausea, but no vomiting, and you haven't really had any other urinary symptoms. I'm not sure if I asked that. Have you had any pain with urinating?

Patient: No.

Physician: Okay. Does that sound like a reasonable summary? Anything I missed?

Patient: I remember that I was also pretty sweaty during the whole thing.

Physician: Okay. 

Patient: I felt nauseous.