Physician: "What brings you in today?"

Physician: "Is there anything else that brought you in today?"

Physician: "Is there anything else you'd like to talk about today before we move on?"

Physician: "Why don't you tell me about when your chest pain started."

Physician: "What were you doing at the time when your chest pain started?"

Physician: "Did you injure any other part of your body during the accident?"

Physician: "Were you wearing a helmet?"

Physician: "Had you been doing anything unusual before mountain biking?"

Physician: "Do you usually mountain bike at night?"

Physician: "Was there anything in particular that you were doing?"

Physician: "How much had you had to drink before you rode your mountain bike?"

Physician: "Do you feel like you were drunk or feeling the effects of the alcohol at the time of the accident?"

Physician: "Have you ridden your mountain bike after drinking in the past?"

Physician: "Any other accidents in the past?"

Physician: "Can you tell me about what the pain feels like to you?"

Physician: "So it's always there?"

Physician: "It doesn't come and go?"

Physician: "It's on your left side. Okay. And you said the sharpness comes on when you move."

Physician: "Anything else that makes the pain worse?"

Physician: "Anything that makes your pain better?"

Physician: "Anything else?"

Physician: "And does your pain radiate anywhere?"

Physician: "Any other symptoms associated with the pain?"

Physician: "Can you tell me about any ongoing medical problems that you might have?"

Physician: "Do you take any medications?"

Physician: "Any other medications that you take?"

Physician: "And have you ever had surgery in the past?"

Physician: "Can you tell me a little bit about anything that runs in your family?"

Physician: "Do you know if she had atherosclerosis?"

Physician: "Or angina or anything like that?"

Physician: "Do you know if she had type 1 diabetes or type 2 diabetes?"

Physician: "Do you know if she takes any medications for the diabetes?"

Physician: "Anyone else in your family with heart problems?"

Physician: "Like high blood pressure or anything like that?"

Physician: "Can you tell me a little bit about your work? You mentioned you're concerned how this might impact your ability to go to work."

Physician: "Are you concerned about returning to work?"

Physician: "Does that sound okay?"

Physician: "Do you drink on a regular basis?"

Physician: "How much do you typically drink in that once-a-week time?"

Physician: "Do you usually feel drunk after that?"

Physician: "Do you ever feel like maybe you're drinking too much or do you feel like you're drinking just as much as other people are drinking?"

Physician: "Does that sound like something you would consider?"

Physician: "I'd be interested to know if you smoke any cigarettes."

Physician: "Do you think that's something you would consider?"

Physician: "Do you use any drugs?"

Physician: "Do you feel like you have a healthy diet?"

Physician: "What kinds of foods do you typically eat?"

Physician: "Do you have any questions about what we've talked about?"

Physician: "And remind me how old you are now."

Physician: "Any other questions that you have?"