Physician: "So I'll just ask a little bit about your chest pain, and then we'll get some information that will help me assess your risk of heart disease since it sounds like you're concerned about that, and then we'll find out a little bit about your job. Okay. Is that okay?"

Physician: "And had you been doing anything unusual before mountain biking?"

Physician: "You said you were having fun beforehand. Was there anything in particular that you were doing?"

Physician: "Do you feel like you were drunk or feeling the effects of the alcohol at the time of the accident?"

Physician: "Any other accidents in the past?"

Physician: "Well, I'm glad to hear that you're wearing a helmet. And it sounds like maybe mountain biking at night isn't the best idea, whether or not you've been drinking just because you can't see that well."

Physician: "So it started two nights ago when you were mountain biking and you hit your chest on the handles. And tell me how it's been since that point."

Physician: "Can you tell me about what the pain feels like to you?"

Physician: "Okay, so it's always there?"

Physician: "It's on your left side. Okay. And you said the sharpness comes on when you move."

Physician: "Anything else that makes the pain worse?"

Physician: "Anything that makes your pain better?"

Physician: "Anything else?"

Physician: "And does your pain radiate anywhere?"

Physician: "And any other symptoms associated with the pain?"

Physician: "So moving on to your past medical history, can you tell me about any ongoing medical problems that you might have?"

Physician: "Do you take any medications?"

Physician: "Any other medications that you take?"

Physician: "And have you ever had surgery in the past?"

Physician: "You have not. Okay. And then since you mentioned before that you're concerned about your heart health, sometimes family history can give us some information about that. Can you tell me a little bit about anything that runs in your family?"

Physician: "Do you know if she had atherosclerosis?"

Physician: "Or angina or anything like that?"

Physician: "Do you know if she had type 1 diabetes or type 2 diabetes?"

Physician: "Do you know if she takes any medications for the diabetes?"

Physician: "Anyone else in your family with heart problems?"

Physician: "Like high blood pressure or anything like that?"

Physician: "Okay. All right. And in terms of your social history, can you tell me a little bit about your work? You mentioned you're concerned how this might impact your ability to go to work."

Physician: "And have you been to work since the accident?"

Physician: "Are you concerned about returning to work?"

Physician: "Once we finish up the visit and we do the exam and get a better idea of what's causing your pain, I would be more than happy to speak with my preceptor and see if we can get a work excuse for you so you can have some recovery time."

Physician: "Does that sound okay?"

Physician: "Good. All right. So a couple more questions about your social history. I'd like to return to the mention of alcohol that we talked about before. You said you were drinking before the accident. Do you drink on a regular basis?"

Physician: "Once a week. Okay. And how much do you typically drink in that once-a-week time?"

Physician: "Five or six beers. Okay. And do you usually feel drunk after that?"

Physician: "A little buzzed. Okay. And do you ever feel like maybe you're drinking too much or do you feel like you're drinking just as much as other people are drinking?"

Physician: "Less than average. Okay. Well, from our standpoint, you know, six drinks in one sitting isn't really at the recommended level, especially since it makes you prone to make decisions like going mountain biking at night. So, you know, I might recommend that you try and drink fewer beers in one sitting. Does that sound like something you would consider?"

Physician: "I see."

Physician: "Okay."

Physician: "Yeah. I mean, drinking is definitely one of those things that could impact your heart health, as are some other things like smoking. I'd be interested to know if you smoke any cigarettes."

Physician: "Okay. So smoking is another thing that if you feel like your heart health is a priority, that's something that you could change in your life. Do you think that's something you would consider?"

Physician: "Okay. And another question related to that is do you use any drugs?"

Physician: "You don't. Okay. And in terms of your diet, do you feel like you have a healthy diet?"

Physician: "Okay. What kinds of foods do you typically eat?"

Physician: "That's good. All right. So it sounds like your three main concerns today were your chest pain, that started a couple days ago, your heart health, because you're worried that you might be at risk for heart disease because of your mom, and then also your work. So it sounds like your chest pain is probably related to the mountain biking accident, and we talked about getting you a note for work. And based on what I've heard from your history, it sounds like at your age and with the lifestyle you have, you're not at a terrible risk for heart disease at this time, but making some changes with cutting out alcohol and smoking, I think that that would definitely decrease your risks of heart disease in the future. Do you have any questions about what we've talked about?"

Physician: "And remind me how old you are now."

Physician: "Okay. So that really depends on what the cause of her heart surgery was. So some things that cause people to get heart surgery people are born with. Other things that cause a need for heart surgery are a result of disease that you get when you're going along and have lifestyle issues or any diseases. So it sounds like for you, you don't have any current diseases like high blood pressure, high cholesterol, anything like that. So we'll do a physical exam and make sure we don't see anything on your exam that makes us concerned. And as long as that's okay, I don't think that your mom's history is something that will impact you even though the two of you are related."

Physician: "Okay."

Physician: "Okay. Any other questions that you have?"

Physician: "Okay. Well, I'll go talk with my preceptor, and you can wait here, change into a gown, and we'll be back in just a few minutes to do your physical exam."

Physician: "Okay."

Physician: "Okay. All right."