Physician: "So in terms of your current health status, on a scale of 0 to 10, what would you rate it as?"
Patient: "Well, I'll probably put it about 7 or 8."
Physician: "Okay. Is there a particular reason?"
Patient: "Well, mostly because of the smoking. And I don't get enough exercise, but it's mostly the smoking."

Physician: "Can I ask you why you take that?"
Patient: "Well, I read that it can help with the mood, and lately I haven't been feeling, you know, in high spirits, so I decided to try that."
Physician: "Is there a particular reason?"
Patient: "Well, different reasons, but lately it's because my father was diagnosed with lung cancer and..."

Physician: "So what makes you think it's going to work this time around?"
Patient: "Well, that's the thing. I'm not sure, but my father got diagnosed with lung cancer, and he and my mother were able to stop. They tried a new treatment, so I want to try that as well."
Physician: "Okay. So that's motivational to you in terms of your parents were able to do it, so hopefully you'll be able to follow suit with them."

Physician: "So do you know the effects of smoking on your body and what it can do potentially?"
Patient: "Well, that's the thing. I was studying nursing, so I know a little bit about that."
Physician: "Okay."
Patient: "You know, obviously lung cancer and other lung diseases. And I think it can also cause heart problems."
Physician: "Okay. So it sounds like you have a pretty good base of knowledge. Smoking can increase your risk of developing lung disease and lung cancer. It can also contribute to heart disease as well. Other things in terms of your appearance, it can actually discolor nails. It can affect hair. I don't think that will be a problem though. And it can also affect the teeth as well. So different effects all over."

Physician: "Is there anything in particular that triggers you to start smoking?"
Patient: "For me now, it's mostly stress. It used to be when I was with other people, but now it's just mostly stress."

Patient: "Well, the only question I have is I don't know much about the medication."
Physician: "Okay."
Patient: "How does it work, and how would I take it?"
Physician: "So it's actually in a pill form, so it's actually very easy for you to take. Are you able to swallow pills?"
Patient: "Oh, yes."
Physician: "You mentioned vitamin D before."
Patient: "Yeah, that would be fine."
Physician: "Okay. What it does is it actually binds to the places where nicotine would bind in your brain, and it prevents nicotine from binding. So it kind of fulfills your cravings without you actually smoking."
Patient: "Ah, I see. Okay."
Physician: "Does that sound, you know?"
Patient: "That sounds good. Okay. Yeah, I want to try it."

Patient: "Well, the question I had, I guess you might have mentioned it, is I was concerned about gaining weight when I stopped smoking. I know that's happened to some people. And, you know, I was also worried about what would happen if this didn't work. I mean, because if this doesn't work, then what am I going to do? So, I mean, I'm just hoping that it will. But, you know, in the back of my mind, I was a little bit worried."
Physician: "You know, that's a practical thought because not all the therapies will work for everyone. But I think it's a really good idea. Studies have actually shown that Shantix is a very effective therapy. But we can definitely try out the Shantix, see how it works for about a month. And then if that doesn't work, we'll try the different therapy options."
Patient: "Okay."
Physician: "Does that sound like a good idea?"
Patient: "Okay, I really hope it works."
Physician: "Okay. You mentioned also the concern about weight gain. And I think the fact that you'll be, it sounds like you may be interested in increasing your exercise activity."
Patient: "Yes."
Physician: "So I think that'll actually help alleviate your worries about weight gain in terms of quitting smoking."
Patient: "I hope so."