Physician: "Hi. My name is Amy. Mr. Smitherson, is that correct?"

Physician: "I understand you've come in today because you're interested in quitting smoking. Is that correct?"

Physician: "How old are you, Tom?"

Physician: "So besides your concern about quitting smoking, do you have any other things that you would like to speak about today?"

Physician: "On a scale of 0 to 10, what would you rate it as?"

Physician: "Is there a particular reason?"

Physician: "Are there any illnesses or medical conditions that you are currently experiencing?"

Physician: "Do you take any medications or any vitamins?"

Physician: "Can I ask you why you take that?"

Physician: "Is there a particular reason?"

Physician: "With regards to your smoking, when exactly did you start smoking?"

Physician: "How many cigarettes do you smoke on a given day?"

Physician: "Do you know what age you started smoking about?"

Physician: "Have you ever considered quitting in the past, or did you ever quit in the past?"

Physician: "Was there a certain... Did you just quit cold turkey and hope that it would last forever?"

Physician: "So what makes you think it's going to work this time around?"

Physician: "Any history of any illnesses, injuries, or surgeries?"

Physician: "Any history of any traumas or accidents?"

Physician: "Is there anything else that you've used in the past?"

Physician: "So you mentioned your mom and your dad, and I'm assuming they're both still alive. Is that correct?"

Physician: "How old are they?"

Physician: "Besides lung cancer, in terms of your father's history, is there any history of heart disease, lung disease besides cancer?"

Physician: "Any history of high blood pressure or high cholesterol?"

Physician: "And how about asthma?"

Physician: "And same thing for your mom. Any history of those diseases?"

Physician: "Do you have any siblings?"

Physician: "Do you currently live with them?"

Physician: "What is your level of education, so like the highest level that you completed?"

Physician: "Can I ask you how exactly that happened during your senior year?"

Physician: "Have you considered going back to school or finishing up your education?"

Physician: "So who really serves as your social support? Would you say it's your parents, or do you have friends in the area?"

Physician: "Do you work currently, or do you stay at home, or what exactly do you do?"

Physician: "Do you have insurance through your job?"

Physician: "Do you have any history of, besides the smoking, do you have any history of alcohol use or recreational drug use?"

Physician: "And are you still keeping up with that, or have you just left it behind you?"

Physician: "Do you have any questions at this time or any other concerns you've thought of?"

Physician: "What do they use to quit smoking?"

Physician: "So do you know the effects of smoking on your body and what it can do potentially?"

Physician: "Is there anything in particular that triggers you to start smoking?"

Physician: "And do you smoke throughout the day, or is it something you're just smoking while you're driving in your car or while you're at home? Is there like a particular trigger for you?"

Physician: "So would you say you kind of wake up and you smoke, and then when you go to bed, you're also smoking and kind of like?"

Physician: "Do you have any questions or any other concerns?"

Physician: "So the first thing that's a really good idea is to actually pick a date. So it could be an upcoming birthday, or it could be any day that you see suitable. Do you have anything in mind in particular?"

Physician: "Does that sound like something you would be able to do?"

Physician: "So why don't we pick a date in two weeks from now? So two weeks from today, we'll say that's your quit date."

Physician: "Do you think that would be possible to kind of just remove yourself from situations?"

Physician: "Does that sound like a good idea?"

Physician: "Is that something that you're considering, or do you have any other options?"

Physician: "Sound good?"

Physician: "Any questions? Any other concerns?"

Physician: "How does it work, and how would I take it?"

Physician: "Does that sound, you know?"

Physician: "Do those sound like things that you'd be interested in doing?"

Physician: "Does that sound good?"

Physician: "Would you be able to repeat back the plan that we've come up with?"

Physician: "Do you have any questions in the end, or is this any other concerns?"

Physician: "Does that sound like a good idea?"