Physician: "So I'm just going to give you a brief on what things we'll go through today. So I'll start off by asking you questions about your current medical history, and then your past medical history, family history, social history. Get to know what you know about smoking and its effects on your body, and then we'll go through a plan. Does that sound like a good idea?"

Physician: "So what makes you think it's going to work this time around?"

Physician: "So it's actually in a pill form, so it's actually very easy for you to take. Are you able to swallow pills?"

Physician: "What it does is it actually binds to the places where nicotine would bind in your brain, and it prevents nicotine from binding. So it kind of fulfills your cravings without you actually smoking."

Physician: "So it's kind of like you're not reminding yourself of your temptation to smoke. Does that sound like something you would be able to do?"

Physician: "So the day before you want to clear everything. Just throw everything away, ashtrays, cigarettes, everything I had mentioned. And you mentioned you're smoking from the morning until the time you're going to sleep, so your sheets probably absorb that smell. So it's probably a good idea to wash bed sheets and kind of make yourself resistant to temptation."

Physician: "The other thing you mentioned is that you live attached to your parents' house."

Physician: "And they mainly serve as your social support. So it's a really good idea to get their support in your efforts. So tell them that you're going to quit smoking, and I'm sure they'll support you considering they themselves quit smoking."

Physician: "You also want to make sure you tell your friends. So tell any friends that do smoke not to smoke around you if possible. Or if you need to, just try avoiding situations which you'll end up having being around the smell of smoke or being around people that are smoking."

Physician: "Because it would be more tempted, and it will be harder for you. So do you think that would be possible to kind of just remove yourself from situations?"

Physician: "And then the other thing is that there are certain behaviors that you can actually change. For example, when you have a temptation to smoke, carry around gum with you or hard candy so you can put that in your mouth. So that'll help you, actually."

Physician: "Other things that have been shown to help people quit smoking is improvements in diet and exercising. So keeping your mind busy with other activities is really important. And that would be where exercising comes into play. And that would also help you with your initial goal. You said you're concerned about not getting exercise in the beginning."

Physician: "So you would essentially kill two birds with one stone by exercising and making your mind busy with that. The other thing is eating a lot of fruits and vegetables, so improving your diet, and also reducing caffeine intake. So reducing coffee would be a really good idea in terms of reducing cravings."

Physician: "It's not like you have to give it up right away because I'm sure it probably helps you wake up in the morning and start the day."

Physician: "So, that's fine."

Physician: "Luckily, considering the financial hardships that you're facing right now, Pfizer actually has a program where they can actually sponsor the prescription for you. So they'll pay everything. They'll take into consideration your salary and the fact that you don't have insurance, and they'll pay for your prescription, and all you have to do is pick it up."

Physician: "So what a calendar allows you to do is it allows you to keep a log of how you're doing, and you can also, like some patients, put stars on days. It makes them feel good about themselves, and it essentially tells us how you're doing with your attempt to quit smoking and what are your weaknesses. So, like, were you hanging out with friends that were smoking, and on a given day you actually ended up smoking that day? So you can take notes on the calendar, and it also serves as a motivation to yourself. So if you keep it in your car, if you keep it near your bedside or on your refrigerator, you'll know that, okay, my goal is to quit smoking, and this is a calendar that's keeping track of how I'm doing."

Physician: "The other option also is a contract. So what a contract essentially will do is it emphasizes that this is a joint effort between us and you and that you're not in this alone, and it kind of solidifies your goal to quit smoking."

Physician: "So we'll definitely follow up with you. And if you have any questions before the follow-up visit after about three weeks, then you can definitely come in or you can call. So don't feel afraid. We're in this with you 100%. So we're here to support you if you have any questions or anything. So we'll schedule a follow-up visit with Dr. Lelko when she comes in. So we look forward to seeing you in about three weeks."