Physician: "With regards to your smoking, when exactly did you start smoking?"
Patient: "Well, it's been a while. I guess I started smoking soon after I started college..."
Physician: "Okay."
Patient: "...because other kids were doing it, and it was just part of the scene."
Physician: "So kind of like peer pressure and kind of influence."
Patient: "Yeah. Not really pressure, but it's just a thing to do."
Physician: "How many cigarettes do you smoke on a given day?"
Patient: "Well, now I smoke about half a pack a day."
Physician: "Okay. And you mentioned... So do you know what age you started smoking about?"
Patient: "It was in college, like 18 or... I was about 18."
Physician: "Okay. Have you ever considered quitting in the past, or did you ever quit in the past?"
Patient: "Well, there were two times I tried to stop smoking because, I mean, although I was doing it, I knew it wasn't good for my health."
Physician: "Yeah."
Patient: "But it didn't really work out. I mean, I would stop for two or three days and..."
Physician: "Okay. Was there a certain... Did you just quit cold turkey and hope that it would last forever?"
Patient: "Basically, yeah. I just stopped."
Physician: "Okay. So what makes you think it's going to work this time around?"
Patient: "Well, that's the thing. I'm not sure, but my father got diagnosed with lung cancer, and he and my mother were able to stop. They tried a new treatment, so I want to try that as well."
Physician: "Okay. So that's motivational to you in terms of your parents were able to do it, so hopefully you'll be able to follow suit with them."
Patient: "That's what I hope, yeah."
Physician: "Okay. In terms of your past medical history, any history of any illnesses, injuries, or surgeries?"
Patient: "No, with me, no. I've been fine."
Physician: "Okay. Any history of any traumas or accidents?"
Patient: "No."
Physician: "Okay. And in terms of medications or vitamins, you just mentioned the vitamin D, and is there anything else that you've used in the past?"
Patient: "No, just really that."