Physician: "How are you doing today?"

Physician: "What brings you into the dental clinic today?"

Physician: "Are you feeling any pain with that bleeding?"

Physician: "Is that the only time that it happens when you're brushing your teeth or you're flossing?"

Physician: "How far along are you?"

Physician: "How long is this bleeding, gums? How long have they been going on?"

Physician: "How often are you generally brushing and flossing?"

Physician: "Are you flossing?"

Physician: "Are you doing anything else to alleviate the gum problems, the soreness that you're having from that? Are you putting any medications in your mouth?"

Physician: "Do you have any other concerns or problems with the treatment that we're going to be giving?"

Physician: "Do you have any concerns about sitting in the dental chair for a long period of time?"

Physician: "Do you have any concerns about stressing the baby while you're in the chair? Do you have any anxiety when you're sitting in the dental chair or trouble sitting through a procedure?"

Physician: "Do you understand everything that I'm telling you about? Could you just tell me what you think that I'm telling you, just so we're both on the same page?"

Physician: "Generally, who do you consult with for your health decisions? Do you have someone, like, are you married? Do you have any family members other than your husband? I see that you're wearing a wedding ring. Do you have any family members other than your husband that you would consult for your health care decisions?"

Physician: "Now, I just want to ask you, in the past have you or do you currently smoke or drink any alcoholic beverages?"

Physician: "You haven't used any illicit drugs such as marijuana or cocaine?"

Physician: "Do you have any other questions for me today?"

Physician: "But I'd like to know after, I mean, examine, like how many visits should I come if I decide to take the deep cleaning or whatever treatment?"

Physician: "Do you have any other questions for me?"