Physician: "Okay. Well, then I'm glad you came in. We can certainly talk about that."

Physician: "I'm glad you're on the medication for it."

Physician: "My guess is that it will."

Physician: "Hey, good thing you're here. That sounds good."

Physician: "As happens sometimes with children when they come along."

Physician: "So that could have something to do with what type of exercise program we choose. So what we'll try to do is once we decide on an exercise program, check back with you pretty often so that we make sure your back is okay."

Physician: "That's good. That means we could have you get out and walk a little bit."

Physician: "Wow."

Physician: "And speaking of family, then, if she's had such a serious history of arthritis, that's something to think about for you too."

Physician: "Good."

Physician: "I understand that. I would, too."

Physician: "Good. We can work with that."

Physician: "So I think that that could also help, would probably help you to feel more comfortable in a gym as well."

Physician: "Okay. Well, that's good."

Physician: "Understandably. I hear those are tough."

Physician: "Okay. So how about this? Would you like to start exercising as of a few days from now? Would you be ready for that?"

Physician: "Okay. And then what we can do is we can get you back in here or to see the physical therapist within that week."

Physician: "And then, say, in a week from now, you can start your exercise routine. And I'll give you a calendar, and on that calendar you could write down which exercises you do each day."

Physician: "And that's good for a few reasons. It's good because you can feel good about what you've done. It's always good to look back and see that you've done it."

Physician: "So just to make sure that I explained that clearly, I know I was a little jumbled in what I was saying, could you tell me what we just agreed upon and what you got from that?"

Physician: "Sure. Good. That sounds good."

Physician: "Sounds good. Sounds very good."

Physician: "It was nice to meet you."