Physician: Well, you know, quitting smoking is probably the best thing you could do for your health.

Patient: Yeah, I mean, like you said, I'm really, I have to do this. I have to do this for the baby and for the family. So I want to, you know, I want to be there and not have this thing to deal with, you know, because I'm always thinking about it, so I'd like to do it.

Physician: Do you, do you, have you ever tried to quit before?

Patient: Yeah, I tried a few times cold turkey, and that never lasted more than a week.

Physician: Why do you think that happened?

Patient: I mean, a couple. I mean, job stress, you know, project deadlines, those sorts of things. I mean, you know, when you're going out with your friends. A lot of my friends and coworkers smoke, so it's kind of like a situational thing. Just light one up, and it's just really hard to resist that temptation.

Physician: Is it something you're thinking about seriously at this point?

Patient: Yeah, I feel like I'm ready at this point. I mean, I feel like if I don't do it now, it's never going to happen because the baby will come and I'll be even more stressed out, and I kind of want to get this out of the way before that happens.

Physician: You have to sort of anticipate in advance what your triggers are going to be, what's going to set off a craving for you, and sort of come up with a plan. Think about it in advance. What will I do when I get that craving for the cigarette? How will I deal with that?

Patient: Okay. Do you have any suggestions as to how to do that? Because I'm anticipating some really strong ones. Just from trying to quit in the past, they're real and they're there, and I really don't know what to do there.

Physician: Okay. Well, cravings usually last about maybe three to five minutes.

Physician: So the whole key to success is to come up with distractions. What am I going to do in that time frame when I get that craving?

Physician: Do you think at this point that you're willing to set an actual quit date, say, within the next month?

Patient: Yeah, the sooner the better, yeah.

Physician: Okay. So why don't we try to come up with a quit date? You said your wife doesn't smoke, so I would suggest trying to quit over a weekend when you're away from work and you're away from people who are smoking around you. How does that sound?

Patient: That sounds great. I mean, I think a couple of weeks, two weeks from now.

Physician: Would that be a reasonable time frame for you?

Patient: Yeah.