Physician: How's everything going for you?

Patient: Very well. Very well. You know, work is keeping me busy. A little stressful at times, but I'm hanging on. And I have great news. My wife and I are expecting our first baby in about four months.

Physician: That's fantastic. Congratulations.

...

Physician: Before Kathy comes in to do your prophy, I wanted to just update your history. Have you been having any problems since you were last here for your last visit?

Patient: Nothing major. You know, occasional bleeding of the gums when I brush and, you know, the usual tobacco stains on the teeth. And the flossing, I know you said to do it every day, but it slips my mind sometimes. It probably averages out to about three or four times a week.

...

Physician: How about your general health? Have there been any changes in your health since you were last here?

Patient: Again, nothing major. A few weeks ago I had an episode of bronchitis, and with that came a little bit of shortness of breath. Like when I go running, you know, and when I run sometimes I get a little short of breath or if I take the stairs at work.

Physician: Okay. No other problems besides that?

Patient: No.

...

Physician: Do you, do you, have you ever tried to quit before?

Patient: Yeah, I tried a few times cold turkey, and that never lasted more than a week.

Physician: Why do you think that happened?

Patient: I mean, a couple. I mean, job stress, you know, project deadlines, those sorts of things. I mean, you know, when you're going out with your friends. A lot of my friends and coworkers smoke, so it's kind of like a situational thing. Just light one up, and it's just really hard to resist that temptation.

...

Physician: Is it something you're thinking about seriously at this point?

Patient: Yeah, I feel like I'm ready at this point. I mean, I feel like if I don't do it now, it's never going to happen because the baby will come and I'll be even more stressed out, and I kind of want to get this out of the way before that happens.

Physician: Okay, all right. Have you ever thought about what triggers your desire to smoke? Like, when you get a craving, when does that typically happen?

Patient: Well, like I said, stress, job stress, really brings them on. But usually, like in the mornings, like when I'm driving to work or to an appointment or something, I light one up after a meal with a cup of coffee. That sort of thing usually brings it on. And also, of course, like I said, being in the presence of people smoking, that's like...

Physician: Okay, yeah, that's pretty common. 

Patient: Yeah. 

Physician: Sometimes it's actually helpful to keep a log of when you smoke and when you get your cravings. You know, we talked about all the different medications, but it's important to keep in mind that none of those are magic bullets. To really be successful with a quit attempt, you have to really be ready. It sounds like you might be at that point. 

Patient: Definitely. 

Physician: You have to sort of anticipate in advance what your triggers are going to be, what's going to set off a craving for you, and sort of come up with a plan. Think about it in advance. What will I do when I get that craving for the cigarette? How will I deal with that?

Patient: Okay. Do you have any suggestions as to how to do that? Because I'm anticipating some really strong ones. Just from trying to quit in the past, they're real and they're there, and I really don't know what to do there.

...