Physician: Before Kathy comes in to do your prophy, I wanted to just update your history. Have you been having any problems since you were last here for your last visit?

Physician: How about your general health? Have there been any changes in your health since you were last here?

Physician: Okay. No other problems besides that?

Physician: Have you seen your physician recently?

Physician: Okay. Yeah, that's important, especially if you're having symptoms like shortness of breath.

Physician: Are you on any medications right now?

Physician: Okay, great. Any changes in your alcohol intake?

Physician: How about your tobacco use?

Physician: Do you, do you, have you ever tried to quit before?

Physician: Why do you think that happened?

Physician: Have you, you said you tried to quit cold turkey in the past. Have you ever used any of the tobacco cessation products? Are you aware of any of those?

Physician: Is it something you're thinking about seriously at this point?

Physician: Have you ever thought about what triggers your desire to smoke? Like, when you get a craving, when does that typically happen?

Physician: Sometimes it's actually helpful to keep a log of when you smoke and when you get your cravings.

Physician: You have to sort of anticipate in advance what your triggers are going to be, what's going to set off a craving for you, and sort of come up with a plan.

Physician: Do you have any suggestions as to how to do that? Because I'm anticipating some really strong ones.

Physician: Do you have support?

Physician: Do you think at this point that you're willing to set an actual quit date, say, within the next month?

Physician: Okay. So why don't we try to come up with a quit date?

Physician: What you need to do is clean out your ashtrays at home, at work, in the car. Clean out the car so that it smells nice and fresh.

Physician: Get rid of cigarette lighters. Let people know, like we talked about, that you're trying to quit. That's really critical.

Physician: Any questions that you have at this point?

Physician: Okay, great. Well, if you do have any questions after you go through the material, please make sure to give me a call.

Physician: Either myself or anyone in the office will certainly be willing to help you in whatever way we can.

Physician: If you decide you want to go with one of the medications that we talked about, the Cantix or the Zyban, those do require a prescription.

Physician: Okay, all right. So then what I'll do is I'll plan on calling you, say, within a couple of days.

Physician: After your actual quit date, which you said is going to be two weeks from this Saturday. From this Saturday.

Physician: Okay. 

Physician: All right, great. Unless I hear from you before then, if you have any questions. Sure, sure. As we talked about. Does that sound okay?

Physician: All right, all right, terrific. Dorothy should be in shortly to do your prophy, and maybe, hopefully, this will be the last time she's removing tobacco stains from your teeth.

Physician: Okay. That would be great. Terrific. So then I'll see you at the end of the prophy visit to check your mouth.