Physician: You're probably already aware that it's a risk factor for a lot of significant medical problems, like lung disease, heart attack, stroke, cancer.

Physician: The shortness of breath and the bronchitis may be related to the smoking, but you probably should definitely have your doctor check that to make sure.

Physician: Then there's the secondhand effects of smoking that can be, you know, the secondhand smoke can be harmful to the people around you. And for your baby, that could cause some problems too, could cause some, you know, breathing problems, ear infections, things like that.

Physician: And, you know, you talked about staining of your teeth. There's other harmful effects of smoking in the mouth. Gum disease, oral cancer puts you at risk for that. It can affect your sense of taste.

Physician: So when you quit, you know, you get a lot of benefits. You get short-term benefits. You'll probably have a lot more energy. You'll probably be able to breathe better. And then over time, you know, you reduce your risk for all the significant medical problems that, you know, we just talked about.

Physician: Sometimes it's actually helpful to keep a log of when you smoke and when you get your cravings.

Physician: You have to sort of anticipate in advance what your triggers are going to be, what's going to set off a craving for you, and sort of come up with a plan. Think about it in advance. What will I do when I get that craving for the cigarette? How will I deal with that?

Physician: Cravings usually last about maybe three to five minutes.

Physician: So the whole key to success is to come up with distractions. What am I going to do in that time frame when I get that craving?

Physician: Keep a water bottle maybe with you that has a straw in it, something to put in your mouth as a distraction. When you're at work, maybe keep some healthy snacks close by, like carrot sticks, celery sticks, something that's healthy.

Physician: If you're craving a cigarette after you eat, brush your teeth right away, right after the meal.

Physician: You might go for a walk, take a jog. The whole idea is to replace an unhealthy habit with a healthy habit. It's sort of like a lifestyle change.

Physician: And then also, very importantly, you have to have a support system in place, family, friends, coworkers. You've got to get people on board to help you because typically you can't do this alone.

Physician: What might help, what usually helps people, is let other people know up front that you're trying to quit and you need their support.

Physician: You may be avoiding social situations where you're around other smokers. Let people know that in advance, that it's nothing personal. You're just trying to avoid temptation until you get through this critical period as your body's going through that withdrawal.

Physician: Typically people who try to quit smoking are not successful on their first attempt. It often takes them several attempts before they finally do quit.

Physician: Clean out your ashtrays at home, at work, in the car. Clean out the car so that it smells nice and fresh.

Physician: Get rid of cigarette lighters. Let people know, like we talked about, that you're trying to quit. That's really critical.