Physician: I've known you a long time, Kevin, so I have no doubt you're going to be a great dad.

Physician: That's fantastic. Congratulations.

Physician: It sounds like you're doing a pretty good job, pretty reasonable job with your oral hygiene.

Physician: That's great. That's fantastic.

Physician: Quitting smoking is probably the best thing you could do for your health.

Physician: You're probably already aware that it's a risk factor for a lot of significant medical problems, like lung disease, heart attack, stroke, cancer.

Physician: You get a lot of benefits. You get short-term benefits. You'll probably have a lot more energy. You'll probably be able to breathe better.

Physician: I don't think that's too bad considering the cost of cigarettes over the long term, and then obviously the health care costs associated with smoking throughout your lifetime.

Physician: Sometimes it's actually helpful to keep a log of when you smoke and when you get your cravings.

Physician: You have to sort of anticipate in advance what your triggers are going to be, what's going to set off a craving for you, and sort of come up with a plan.

Physician: The whole key to success is to come up with distractions.

Physician: You shouldn't really be too hard on yourself because typically people who try to quit smoking are not successful on their first attempt.

Physician: The important thing is that you've tried, and it sounds like you're still really interested, that you're very motivated.

Physician: That's great because that would give you some time to prepare.

Physician: What you need to do is clean out your ashtrays at home, at work, in the car. Clean out the car so that it smells nice and fresh.

Physician: Let people know, like we talked about, that you're trying to quit. That's really critical.

Physician: Either myself or anyone in the office will certainly be willing to help you in whatever way we can.

Physician: If you decide you want to go with one of the medications that we talked about, the Cantix or the Zyban, those do require a prescription. I'll be happy to write a prescription for you and provide any additional information about the products if you feel like you need it.

Physician: Okay, all right, terrific. Dorothy should be in shortly to do your prophy, and maybe, hopefully, this will be the last time she's removing tobacco stains from your teeth.

Physician: That would be great. Terrific. So then I'll see you at the end of the prophy visit to check your mouth.