Physician: "You're probably referring to a new medication called Cantix. They've been advertising that a lot. And that has been shown to be very effective for people who are trying to quit."

Physician: "Zyban's another medication that's available. And then there's the, what are called the nicotine replacement products, like the patch, the gum, the lozenges. So those are all the different methods that are currently out there."

Physician: "The patch, for example, it's pretty easy to use. You just put it on your arm once in the morning, and it releases a steady dose of nicotine throughout the day. It's designed to be a step-down method, so you start with a higher dose patch. And then over the course of several weeks, usually 12 weeks, you use patches of, you know, tapering doses, lesser strength, until you overcome your cravings for the nicotine. With the gum and the lozenges, you have to remember to keep using those throughout the day when you get cravings. And a lot of people like to have something in their mouth, something to suck on or something to chew, so that, you know, people find that helpful. And then with the medications like the Cantix and the Zyban, you usually just take those twice a day, once in the morning and once in the evening."

Physician: "Okay. Well, cravings usually last about maybe three to five minutes."

Physician: "So the whole key to success is to come up with distractions. What am I going to do in that time frame when I get that craving? So as I was listening to what triggers your need for cigarettes, you said you're driving."

Physician: "So if you're in the car driving, turn the radio on. Sing along with the radio. That's a distraction. Okay. You might consider carpooling with someone who doesn't smoke, and that would be a deterrent from smoking."

Physician: "Keep a water bottle maybe with you that has a straw in it, something to put in your mouth as a distraction. When you're at work, maybe keep some healthy snacks close by, like carrot sticks, celery sticks, something that's healthy. If you're craving a cigarette after you eat, brush your teeth right away, right after the meal. So that will make your mouth feel nice and fresh and be another deterrent from smoking. You might go for a walk, take a jog. The whole idea is to replace an unhealthy habit with a healthy habit. It's sort of like a lifestyle change."