Here are relevant quotes showing the physician using verbal encouragement and facilitation skills to engage the patient:

Physician: "That's fantastic. Congratulations."

Physician: "I've known you a long time, Kevin, so I have no doubt you're going to be a great dad. So that's just great news. Please make sure you give my congratulations to your wife."

Physician: "That's great. That's fantastic."

Physician: "Well, actually, that's a really good thing. You know, quitting smoking is probably the best thing you could do for your health."

Physician: "Okay, all right. So do you think you would want to quit, do you think?"

Physician: "Is it something you're thinking about seriously at this point?"

Physician: "Sometimes it's actually helpful to keep a log of when you smoke and when you get your cravings. You know, we talked about all the different medications, but it's important to keep in mind that none of those are magic bullets. To really be successful with a quit attempt, you have to really be ready. It sounds like you might be at that point."

Physician: "Do you have support?"

Physician: "Okay. Well, you know, you shouldn't really be too hard on yourself because typically people who try to quit smoking are not successful on their first attempt. It often takes them several attempts before they finally do quit. The important thing is that you've tried, and it sounds like you're still really interested, that you're very motivated. Do you think at this point that you're willing to set an actual quit date, say, within the next month?"

Physician: "Okay. That's great because that would give you some time to prepare."

Physician: "Any questions that you have at this point?"

Physician: "Okay, all right. So then what I'll do is I'll plan on calling you, say, within a couple of days."

Physician: "All right, all right, terrific. Dorothy should be in shortly to do your prophy, and maybe, hopefully, this will be the last time she's removing tobacco stains from your teeth."