Physician: So what brought you here today?

Patient: Well, I have a lot of soreness right here. I think it's abscessed. I'm not really sure.

Physician: Okay. 

Patient: It's really painful. 

Physician: It's very painful. On both sides?

Patient: Both sides, yeah.

Physician: On the lower? Okay. Can you describe the pain to me a little bit?

Patient: Right now it's throbbing. 

Physician: It's throbbing pain. 

Patient: It has been for a while, yeah.

Physician: Okay. How long is the pain, like the duration of the pain? 

Patient: Like how long have I had it or how long does it last?

Physician: Yeah, yeah. Kind of just describe a little bit to me. 

Patient: Probably, well, it's been on and off, but the way that it's been like this, it's been like about 10 days.

Physician: It's been about 10 days?

Patient: Yeah. I didn't really want to do anything about it, but at this point I know I have to.

Physician: Okay. Have you had any problems with it before this or it's just started at 10 days, 10 days ago?

Patient: Well, I had some mercury fillings that I had taken out about two years ago.

Physician: Okay. 

Patient: And I don't know if it's related to that, but that might have, you know, started the ball rolling. I don't really know.

Physician: Okay. Alright. So just so I've got an idea, you're feeling like you have some abscesses in your mouth and they are on both sides on the lower.

Patient: Yeah. 

Physician: And it's been about 10 days, but you had some mercury fillings, some probably amalgam, are they silver-colored?

Patient: Yeah. 

Physician: Silver-colored fillings in the past and you think that might be the cause and you had those removed about two years ago, is that correct?

Patient: About two years ago.

Physician: About two years ago. Okay. Alright. Just so I can get an idea. Now, what about, I'm going to ask just a little bit more about your past dental history because I've kind of got an idea about your chief complaint right now. We'll address that first today, but I want to kind of get an overall picture. Have you had dental work? You've had dental work done in the past then?

... 

Physician: All right. So this may seem like a broad question, but I know you mentioned it before. What are some of the significant medical problems that you have?

Patient: Well, I have shortness of breath.

... 

Physician: All right. And see how comfortable you are keeping it on, or you may even feel comfortable later on taking it off, but we'll see. All right?

Patient: All right. We'll see.

Physician: All right. Any other significant medical problems besides the shortness of breath?

Patient: Chest pain.

... 

Physician: Okay. Well, if you're allergic to them, we wouldn't use anything, of course, that you're allergic to. If there's large fillings or something like that, you'd probably be more comfortable being numb. But if you don't feel comfortable with that, if you're allergic to something, then we can try it without and see how it goes.

Patient: Okay. 

Physician: All right. Besides the anesthetics and the latex, any other allergies at all that you know of?

Patient: No.

... 

Physician: All right. So I think I have a good idea about medical history a little bit. So have you been seeing a physician on a regular basis?

Patient: Not exactly. Not exactly. I've had a few, you know, consulting doctors, nothing regular.

... 

Physician: Okay. All right. All right. I think I have a fairly good idea of medical history and dental history. So what we'll probably do now is take a look, if that's okay, to see what we can find, kind of diagnose the problem a little bit. And we'll focus on those, you know, the problems on the lower teeth if that's, you know, really bothering you. And then we'll probably get a plan for you, kind of a treatment plan, that, you know, you will want to approve. And after I look at this, we'll discuss a lot more about what kind of materials that we can use to fill the teeth or restore the teeth if they need to be restored. Does that sound all right?

Patient: It's good. I have had, you know, friends, you know, make fun of me because they're like, oh, chemical sensitivities and stuff. But it sounds like you'll be able to understand what I'm going through.

Physician: No, I totally understand. We'll make sure that everything we do that you're comfortable with at first. We're not going to do, you know, anything that you're not comfortable with.

Patient: Okay. 

Physician: All right. Does that sound good?

Patient: That sounds good.