Physician: So what brought you here today?

Physician: Can you describe the pain to me a little bit?

Physician: How long is the pain, like the duration of the pain? 

Physician: Have you had any problems with it before this or it's just started at 10 days, 10 days ago?

Physician: Why did you have the fillings removed? What do you think was the problem?

Physician: Do you think the problems with your teeth, you think they're related to chemical sensitivities? Is that my understanding?

Physician: What are some of the significant medical problems that you have?

Physician: Any other significant medical problems besides the shortness of breath?

Physician: Any, for example, any, like, heart problems?

Physician: Lung problems?

Physician: Anything diagnosed of it?

Physician: Anything with, like, type 2 diabetes or type 1 diabetes, anything like that?

Physician: Any other medical problems that run in the family, heart problems or lung problems or anything like that?

Physician: Do you live with your mom, or does she live close by?

Physician: So do you have a little bit of family support then at home?

Physician: But no heart murmurs or any diagnosed type of heart problem?

Physician: Are you taking any medications at all?

Physician: What about any herbs or anything, non-prescribed medications?

Physician: Besides the anesthetics and the latex, any other allergies at all that you know of?

Physician: Do you drink?

Physician: What about smoking?

Physician: Any infectious diseases at all, such as HIV?

Physician: Have you been seeing a physician on a regular basis?

Physician: Were you married or are you married at all?

Physician: What about transportation? Is transportation going to be a problem or not?

Physician: Do you work at all now or no?

Physician: So timeframes for the appointments wouldn't be too much of a problem then?

Physician: Does that sound all right?

Physician: We'll probably take a couple pictures of your teeth, x-rays. Is that all right, to take some x-rays of your teeth?