Here are the parts of the conversation where the physician sought clarification, verification, and specificity of the patient's responses:

Physician: Can you describe the pain to me a little bit?

Physician: How long is the pain, like the duration of the pain?

Physician: Yeah, yeah. Kind of just describe a little bit to me.

Physician: So just so I've got an idea, you're feeling like you have some abscesses in your mouth and they are on both sides on the lower.

Physician: And it's been about 10 days, but you had some mercury fillings, some probably amalgam, are they silver-colored?

Physician: Silver-colored fillings in the past and you think that might be the cause and you had those removed about two years ago, is that correct?

Physician: What kind of dental work have you had in the past? Just the wisdom teeth and a few fillings, is that about it?

Physician: And did you see the dentist regularly or just when it was painful for you?

Physician: Why did you have the fillings removed? What do you think was the problem?

Physician: So you think it's just some chemical sensitivities to your teeth, and that's why you had the amalgam fillings removed then. Is that correct?

Physician: How often do you have to use it (oxygen tank)?

Physician: And why do you have it?

Physician: And did a doctor prescribe that for you?

Physician: How long have you used it?

Physician: Do you think you're going to —I think it will be fine if you use it here. If you feel more comfortable, you know, with coming to the dental appointments, with it, that's all right. Do you think it will be fine if we lean you back in the chair and things like that? Will you be all right?

Physician: Any other significant medical problems besides the shortness of breath?

Physician: But nothing has been diagnosed?

Physician: Any, for example, any, like, heart problems?

Physician: Lung problems?

Physician: Anything diagnosed of it?

Physician: Anything with, like, type 2 diabetes or type 1 diabetes, anything like that?

Physician: You don't have that? Okay.

Physician: Any other medical problems that run in the family, heart problems or lung problems or anything like that?

Physician: Do you live with your mom, or does she live close by?

Physician: So do you have a little bit of family support then at home?

Physician: Are you taking any medications at all?

Physician: But you are taking some multivitamins or some type of vitamins?

Physician: What about any herbs or anything, non-prescribed medications?

Physician: Besides the anesthetics and the latex, any other allergies at all that you know of?

Physician: Do you drink?

Physician: What about smoking?

Physician: Any infectious diseases at all, such as HIV?

Physician: Have you been seeing a physician on a regular basis?

Physician: And then I know we talked a little bit about your family. Were you married or are you married at all?

Physician: What about transportation? Is transportation going to be a problem or not?

Physician: Do you work at all now or no?

Physician: So timeframes for the appointments wouldn't be too much of a problem then?