Physician: Okay. How long is the pain, like the duration of the pain? 

Patient: Like how long have I had it or how long does it last?

Physician: Yeah, yeah. Kind of just describe a little bit to me. 

Patient: Probably, well, it's been on and off, but the way that it's been like this, it's been like about 10 days.

Physician: It's been about 10 days?

Patient: Yeah. I didn't really want to do anything about it, but at this point I know I have to.

Physician: Okay. Have you had any problems with it before this or it's just started at 10 days, 10 days ago?

Patient: Well, I had some mercury fillings that I had taken out about two years ago.

Physician: Okay. 

Patient: And I don't know if it's related to that, but that might have, you know, started the ball rolling. I don't really know.

Physician: Okay. Alright. So just so I've got an idea, you're feeling like you have some abscesses in your mouth and they are on both sides on the lower.

Patient: Yeah. 

Physician: And it's been about 10 days, but you had some mercury fillings, some probably amalgam, are they silver-colored?

Patient: Yeah. 

Physician: Silver-colored fillings in the past and you think that might be the cause and you had those removed about two years ago, is that correct?

Patient: About two years ago.

Physician: About two years ago. Okay. Alright. Just so I can get an idea. Now, what about, I'm going to ask just a little bit more about your past dental history because I've kind of got an idea about your chief complaint right now. We'll address that first today, but I want to kind of get an overall picture. Have you had dental work? You've had dental work done in the past then?

Patient: I had wisdom teeth removed, I guess it was about 15 years ago.

Physician: Okay. 

Patient: And I've been, you know, very good, regular dental checkups, the whole, you know, thing. About five years ago, I had some issues medical-wise.

Physician: Okay.

Patient: So a little bit different now. I do like baking soda with my teeth. 

Physician: Okay.

Patient: I brush still every day, but no toothpaste.

Physician: No toothpaste. Okay. What kind of dental work have you had in the past? Just the wisdom teeth and a few fillings, is that about it?

Patient: That's about it, yeah.

Physician: Okay. And did you see the dentist regularly or just when it was painful for you?

Patient: Everything was regular up until about two years ago. I had the fillings out and then nothing really since then.

Physician: Okay. Alright. Why did you have the fillings removed? What do you think was the problem?

Patient: Well, it's kind of a long story, but about five years ago, I had bought a new car.

Physician: Okay. You know, that new car smell and all that. And for some reason, I didn't know at the time, but I started getting, you know, dizzy, short of breath, 

Physician: Okay.

Patient: chest pain, everything. I found out later that it was to do with the inlet, the fresh air inlet. 

Physician: Mm-hmm.

Patient: But ever since then, I've had trouble.

Patient: A lot of chemical sensitivities. 

Physician: Okay. 

Patient: Oh, I am allergic to latex, I wanted to tell you that.

Physician: Okay, good. 

Patient: And no anesthetics for me either, too. 

Physician: Are you allergic to anesthetics?

Patient: I think so.

Physician: Certain anesthetics? Okay. I'll ask you just a few more questions about that later. We'll get into a little bit of the medical history at first.

...

Physician: Okay. So you feel like you've had dental work in the past pretty much on a regular basis. Is that correct? 

Patient: Mm-hmm.

Physician: And just you were in a car, and you're feeling like as soon as you had the new car, certain health problems were starting to happen. Is that correct?

Patient: That was kind of this, you know, it kind of snowballed from there. And I don't know if that, you know, was the official trigger.

Physician: Okay. 

Patient: But ever since then, it's just gotten worse and worse. 

Physician: All right, and so do you think the problems with your teeth, you think they're related to chemical sensitivities? Is that my understanding?

Patient: Well, I had the mercury taken out. I had a lab report done. It was like a serum thing.

Physician: Okay. 

Patient: And I sent some samples out to Colorado, and that's actually the report right here.

Physician: Oh, okay. 

Patient: If you can take a look later. It's pretty extensive, yeah.

Physician: Okay. Yeah, I will take a look at this later a little bit. So you think it's just some chemical sensitivities to your teeth, and that's why you had the amalgam fillings removed then. Is that correct?

Patient: I wasn't sure if my body was rejecting the mercury or what was happening, but I figured it was a good idea to take them out. I had done some reading on my own, and then with the lab results, they said, you know, mercury wasn't good for me. So I figured I'd have them out.

Physician: Okay. Well, I mean, there have been some studies done, and the American Dental Association has said that amalgam fillings that have the mercury in it are safe to use. But, however, there are some other materials that we could use. There's some resins and certain other types of materials that we could try. And I'll take a look at this and see if we can find something that you'd be comfortable with that we could try that might be not as sensitive.

...

Physician: All right. So this may seem like a broad question, but I know you mentioned it before. What are some of the significant medical problems that you have?

Patient: Well, I have shortness of breath.

Physician: Okay. 

Patient: I don't use it at home, though.

Physician: Okay. Yeah, I noticed you did have the oxygen tank, so I was going to ask you about that. How often do you have to use it?

Patient: Whenever I'm out of the house.

Physician: Okay. 

Patient: I don't go out that often, but when I do, I always take it with me.

Physician: Okay. And why do you have it?

Patient: Well, the shortness of breath is part of it. The other part is I just don't want anything coming in as far as chemicals because I am so highly sensitive, so it's more to give me fresh air.

Physician: Okay. All right. And you have to use it all the time or just outside of the house?

Patient: Well, I did use it once in the house. I was feeling a little short of breath, but otherwise just out.

Physician: Okay. All right. And did a doctor prescribe that for you?

Patient: Yeah. Well, we kind of talked about it together. Talked about it a little bit.

Physician: Okay. And how long have you used it?

Patient: Oh, I want to say it was shortly after my incident with the car, so probably about 18 months, maybe a little longer.

Physician: Maybe a little longer. Okay, so about 18 months with shortness of breath. Do you think you're going to —I think it will be fine if you use it here. If you feel more comfortable, you know, with coming to the dental appointments, with it, that's all right. Do you think it will be fine if we lean you back in the chair and things like that? Will you be all right?

Patient: I think so.

Physician: Okay. We can try it out and see, and you may even find out that you don't need it.

Patient: Yeah, I really want to keep this in.

Physician: Yeah, so we'll try it out and see how it works. All right. And see how comfortable you are keeping it on, or you may even feel comfortable later on taking it off, but we'll see. All right?

Patient: All right. We'll see.

Physician: All right. Any other significant medical problems besides the shortness of breath?

Patient: Chest pain.

Physician: Okay. 

Patient: It comes and goes, so I never really know, you know, when it's going to happen.

Physician: Okay, but nothing has been diagnosed?

Patient: No. I mean, they've been trying to figure out, you know, a diagnosis, but no.

Physician: Okay. All right. Any, for example, any, like, heart problems?

Patient: As far as family history?

Physician: Yourself.

Patient: Oh, me, myself? Aside from that, no, no.

Physician: Lung problems?

Patient: Well, the shortness of breath.

Physician: Just the shortness of breath?

Patient: Yeah.

Physician: Okay. Anything diagnosed of it?

Patient: With the shortness of breath?

Physician: Yeah. 

Patient: They think it might