Physician: "Okay. All right. Well, it sounds like the pain is a little bit more urgent right now. So, we'll start with the pain. We may get a little bit of a chance to talk about the incontinence as well. You know, that's a common problem. And we can also set up an appointment in the future to talk more about that. Does that sound okay?"

Patient: "Yeah."

Physician: "Okay. Can you tell me a little bit more about the pain? Where it's located?"

Physician: "Okay. I just want to kind of summarize what you've told me so far since I jumped around a little bit and make sure that I got everything right. If anything's wrong, let me know for sure, or if we forgot anything."

Patient: "Okay"

Physician: "Okay. So you've had this pain that woke you up out of sleep this morning. It was really severe, tearing pain in your right side, about a 10 out of 10, really one of the worst pains you've ever had. Moves into your groin a little bit, and you tried to walk around, took some Tylenol, nothing really helped to make it any better. And at the same time, you also had this feeling that you had to pee, and you tried to pee and weren't able to pass any urine until later this morning when you finally were able to pass some urine, but you noticed it was kind of a funny reddish color. And at the same time, you had some nausea, but no vomiting, and you haven't really had any other urinary symptoms. I'm not sure if I asked that. Have you had any pain with urinating?"

Physician: "Okay, so I feel like we've gotten a pretty good sense today of the different symptoms that you've been having and I understand that you've been having this really terrible pain and so I think we need to really figure out what's going on with that. And I also do want to address the incontinence a little bit later, but I think at this point it would be good for us to do physical exam, get some more information, and then after that we can talk and I'll tell you what I'm thinking about what what it might be and we can talk together about what our plan will be to go from here. Does that sound okay?"

Patient: "Sounds great."