Physician: So now we can actually form a plan together as to how you're going to go about quitting smoking. So the first thing that's a really good idea is to actually pick a date. So it could be an upcoming birthday, or it could be any day that you see suitable. Do you have anything in mind in particular?

Patient: Well, I'm ready to stop any time, but I don't know. I wanted to ask your recommendation about that.

Physician: Okay. I would suggest giving yourself like a week or two and picking a day.

Patient: Okay. 

Physician: It could be any day of the week, and you pick that day and you say to yourself, the day before you're going to clear your house and clear your car of anything that reminds you of smoking. So ashtrays, cigarettes, matches. If you smoke in a particular jacket or clothing, it's a good idea to wash those things to prepare yourself.

Patient: That's a good idea.

Physician: So it's kind of like you're not reminding yourself of your temptation to smoke. Does that sound like something you would be able to do?

Patient: Yeah, that sounds like a good idea. I didn't think about that before.

Physician: Okay. So why don't we pick a date in two weeks from now? So two weeks from today, we'll say that's your quit date.

Patient: Sure. 

Physician: And we can definitely give you a calendar so it will be easy to track.

Patient: Okay, that will help. 

Physician: So the day before you want to clear everything. Just throw everything away, ashtrays, cigarettes, everything I had mentioned. And you mentioned you're smoking from the morning until the time you're going to sleep, so your sheets probably absorb that smell. So it's probably a good idea to wash bed sheets and kind of make yourself resistant to temptation.

Patient: Okay. 

Physician: The other thing you mentioned is that you live attached to your parents' house.

Patient: That's right. 

Physician: And they mainly serve as your social support. So it's a really good idea to get their support in your efforts. So tell them that you're going to quit smoking, and I'm sure they'll support you considering they themselves quit smoking.

Patient: My mom has been on my case since she quit. 

Physician: She's a good mom. 

Patient: So I'm sure she'll be happy to hear that.

Physician: Okay. You also want to make sure you tell your friends. So tell any friends that do smoke not to smoke around you if possible. Or if you need to, just try avoiding situations which you'll end up having being around the smell of smoke or being around people that are smoking.

Patient: Right. 

Physician: Because it would be more tempted, and it will be harder for you. So do you think that would be possible to kind of just remove yourself from situations?

Patient: I'll definitely make every effort to do that because I really want to stop now.

Physician: Yeah. That's good. And you have valid motivation, I mean, considering your father's history.

Patient: Exactly.

Physician: So I think it'll be successful this time around. And then the other thing is that there are certain behaviors that you can actually change. For example, when you have a temptation to smoke, carry around gum with you or hard candy so you can put that in your mouth. So that'll help you, actually.

Patient: Okay. 

Physician: Other things that have been shown to help people quit smoking is improvements in diet and exercising. So keeping your mind busy with other activities is really important. And that would be where exercising comes into play. And that would also help you with your initial goal. You said you're concerned about not getting exercise in the beginning.

Patient: Right.

Physician: So you would essentially kill two birds with one stone by exercising and making your mind busy with that. The other thing is eating a lot of fruits and vegetables, so improving your diet, and also reducing caffeine intake. So reducing coffee would be a really good idea in terms of reducing cravings.

Patient: But I only drink one coffee in the morning. Is that a problem?

Physician: It's not like you have to give it up right away because I'm sure it probably helps you wake up in the morning and start the day.

Patient: Right. 

Physician: So, that's fine.

Patient: Okay.

Physician:  And then in terms of the – there are numerous medications. So you have nicotine gum, nicotine inhalers, patches. There are also recently medications, for example, Zyban or Chantix. You mentioned before that your parents were successful quitters with Chantix.

Patient: Right. 

Physician: Is that something that you're considering, or do you have any other options?

Patient: Well, because they both tried it and it worked for them, I would want to try the same thing instead of trying different things in case they don't work.

Physician: Okay. Luckily, considering the financial hardships that you're facing right now, Pfizer actually has a program where they can actually sponsor the prescription for you. So they'll pay everything. They'll take into consideration your salary and the fact that you don't have insurance, and they'll pay for your prescription, and all you have to do is pick it up.

Patient: That sounds good. 

Physician: Sound good?

Patient: Right. 

Physician: So from everything that we've discussed, I just want to make sure that I've said things clearly and that I haven't misspoke. Would you be able to repeat back the plan that we've come up with?

Patient: Okay. So I'm picking a date, which is two weeks from today, to be my last day of smoking. And before that day, I'm going to try to remove anything that reminds me of smoking, you know, ashtrays and cigarettes and try to wash my sheets and clean up my car and things like that. 

Physician: Good. 

Patient: And we're going to try this drug, the Shantix, which I can get through Pfizer, so we have to do some paperwork for that. And also I'm going to tell my family and my friends that I'm going to try to quit smoking now and try to avoid friends who smoke at places where I normally smoke. And I'll sign a contract and have a calendar to remind me of my commitment.

Physician: Okay. Excellent.