Physician: Okay. So besides your concern about quitting smoking, do you have any other things that you would like to speak about today?

Patient: No. That was pretty much it.

Physician: All right. If anything comes up, you can just stop me or just remember for later. Sound good?

Patient: Okay.

Physician: Do you have any questions at this time or any other concerns you've thought of?

Patient: No. You already mentioned it. I was concerned about how much the medication would cost. I don't know how much it cost my parents because they had good insurance.

Physician: Okay. So you mentioned your parents had insurance and they used medication. What do they use to quit smoking?

Patient: Well, they use, I think it's a new drug. It's called Shantix or something like that.

Physician: Okay. All right. So we can definitely discuss that later on. Okay. So in terms of, I'm going to ask you questions about your own knowledge of smoking. So do you know the effects of smoking on your body and what it can do potentially?

... (The physician continues to ask open-ended questions and listens attentively to the patient's responses, allowing the patient to share their thoughts and concerns.)

Physician: Any questions? Any other concerns?

Patient: Well, the only question I have is I don't know much about the medication.

Physician: Okay. 

... (The physician provides information and answers the patient's questions, and the conversation continues in a collaborative and supportive manner.)

Physician: Do those sound like things that you'd be interested in doing?

Patient: Yeah, I could do them. The calendar sounds like a really good idea.

Physician: Okay, good. So we can definitely discuss that with Dr. Lelko when she comes in, and we can actually sign the contract today. And when you receive the contract and the calendar, just try to put them in places where you tend to smoke. So you mentioned in your bedroom, so put it around your bed. Also show your mom and show your dad because it'll make it believable for them that you're actually in this for good for the long term.

Patient: Okay.

Physician: And it'll serve as your own personal motivation. Does that sound good?

Patient: Sounds good.

Physician: Okay. So from everything that we've discussed, I just want to make sure that I've said things clearly and that I haven't misspoke. Would you be able to repeat back the plan that we've come up with?

Patient: Okay. So I'm picking a date, which is two weeks from today, to be my last day of smoking. And before that day, I'm going to try to remove anything that reminds me of smoking, you know, ashtrays and cigarettes and try to wash my sheets and clean up my car and things like that. 

... (The patient summarizes the plan, and the physician confirms and provides further guidance and support.)

Physician: Okay. You mentioned also the concern about weight gain. And I think the fact that you'll be, it sounds like you may be interested in increasing your exercise activity.

Physician: Yes. So I think that'll actually help alleviate your worries about weight gain in terms of quitting smoking.

Patient: I hope so.

Physician: Okay. So we'll definitely follow up with you. And if you have any questions before the follow-up visit after about three weeks, then you can definitely come in or you can call. So don't feel afraid. We're in this with you 100%. So we're here to support you if you have any questions or anything.