Physician: So what makes you think it's going to work this time around?

Patient: Well, that's the thing. I'm not sure, but my father got diagnosed with lung cancer, and he and my mother were able to stop. They tried a new treatment, so I want to try that as well.

Physician: Okay. So that's motivational to you in terms of your parents were able to do it, so hopefully you'll be able to follow suit with them.

Physician: So kind of like peer pressure and kind of influence.

Patient: Yeah. Not really pressure, but it's just a thing to do.

Physician: You mentioned your parents had insurance and they used medication. What do they use to quit smoking?

Patient: Well, they use, I think it's a new drug. It's called Shantix or something like that.

Physician: So it sounds like you have a pretty good base of knowledge. Smoking can increase your risk of developing lung disease and lung cancer. It can also contribute to heart disease as well.

Physician: Is there anything in particular that triggers you to start smoking?

Patient: For me now, it's mostly stress. It used to be when I was with other people, but now it's just mostly stress.

Physician: You mentioned before that your parents were successful quitters with Chantix.

Patient: Right. 

Physician: Is that something that you're considering, or do you have any other options?

Patient: Well, because they both tried it and it worked for them, I would want to try the same thing instead of trying different things in case they don't work.

Physician: Luckily, considering the financial hardships that you're facing right now, Pfizer actually has a program where they can actually sponsor the prescription for you.

Patient: The only question I have is I don't know much about the medication.

Physician: So it's actually in a pill form, so it's actually very easy for you to take... What it does is it actually binds to the places where nicotine would bind in your brain, and it prevents nicotine from binding. So it kind of fulfills your cravings without you actually smoking.

Physician: You mentioned also the concern about weight gain. And I think the fact that you'll be, it sounds like you may be interested in increasing your exercise activity.

Physician: Yes. So I think that'll actually help alleviate your worries about weight gain in terms of quitting smoking.