Physician: So in terms of, I'm going to ask you questions about your own knowledge of smoking. So do you know the effects of smoking on your body and what it can do potentially?

Patient: Well, that's the thing. I was studying nursing, so I know a little bit about that.

Physician: Okay. 

Patient: You know, obviously lung cancer and other lung diseases. And I think it can also cause heart problems.

Physician: Okay. So it sounds like you have a pretty good base of knowledge. Smoking can increase your risk of developing lung disease and lung cancer. It can also contribute to heart disease as well. Other things in terms of your appearance, it can actually discolor nails. It can affect hair. I don't think that will be a problem though. And it can also affect the teeth as well. So different effects all over.

Physician: So knowing your knowledge of smoking and knowing what triggers you and the fact that you are smoking continuously throughout the day, so it's not like there's a certain place that stimulates you. Is that correct?

Patient: No. It's anywhere, anytime.

Physician: Okay. So now we can actually form a plan together as to how you're going to go about quitting smoking.

Physician: So from everything that we've discussed, I just want to make sure that I've said things clearly and that I haven't misspoke. Would you be able to repeat back the plan that we've come up with?

Patient: Okay. So I'm picking a date, which is two weeks from today, to be my last day of smoking. And before that day, I'm going to try to remove anything that reminds me of smoking, you know, ashtrays and cigarettes and try to wash my sheets and clean up my car and things like that. 

Physician: Good. 

Patient: And we're going to try this drug, the Shantix, which I can get through Pfizer, so we have to do some paperwork for that. And also I'm going to tell my family and my friends that I'm going to try to quit smoking now and try to avoid friends who smoke at places where I normally smoke. And I'll sign a contract and have a calendar to remind me of my commitment.

Physician: Okay. Excellent.