Here are the questions used by the physician:

Physician: Is that correct?

Physician: How old are you, Tom?

Physician: So besides your concern about quitting smoking, do you have any other things that you would like to speak about today?

Physician: On a scale of 0 to 10, what would you rate it as?

Physician: Is there a particular reason?

Physician: Are there any illnesses or medical conditions that you are currently experiencing?

Physician: Do you take any medications or any vitamins?

Physician: Can I ask you why you take that?

Physician: Is there a particular reason?

Physician: Any herbal supplements or anything else that you're currently taking?

Physician: With regards to your smoking, when exactly did you start smoking?

Physician: How many cigarettes do you smoke on a given day?

Physician: And you mentioned... So do you know what age you started smoking about?

Physician: Have you ever considered quitting in the past, or did you ever quit in the past?

Physician: Was there a certain... Did you just quit cold turkey and hope that it would last forever?

Physician: So what makes you think it's going to work this time around?

Physician: In terms of your past medical history, any history of any illnesses, injuries, or surgeries?

Physician: Any history of any traumas or accidents?

Physician: And in terms of medications or vitamins, you just mentioned the vitamin D, and is there anything else that you've used in the past?

Physician: Going on to family history, so you mentioned your mom and your dad, and I'm assuming they're both still alive. Is that correct?

Physician: And how old are they?

Physician: Besides lung cancer, in terms of your father's history, is there any history of heart disease, lung disease besides cancer?

Physician: Any history of high blood pressure or high cholesterol?

Physician: And how about asthma?

Physician: And same thing for your mom. Any history of those diseases?

Physician: Do you have any siblings?

Physician: Going on to social history, so you mentioned mom and dad. Do you currently live with them?

Physician: And what is your level of education, so like the highest level that you completed?

Physician: Can I ask you how exactly that happened during your senior year?

Physician: Have you considered going back to school or finishing up your education?

Physician: So who really serves as your social support? Would you say it's your parents, or do you have friends in the area?

Physician: And do you work currently, or do you stay at home, or what exactly do you do?

Physician: Do you have insurance through your job?

Physician: Do you have any history of, besides the smoking, do you have any history of alcohol use or recreational drug use?

Physician: And are you still keeping up with that, or have you just left it behind you?

Physician: So in terms of your current health status, do you know the effects of smoking on your body and what it can do potentially?

Physician: Is there anything in particular that triggers you to start smoking?

Physician: And do you smoke throughout the day, or is it something you're just smoking while you're driving in your car or while you're at home? Is there like a particular trigger for you?

Physician: So would you say you kind of wake up and you smoke, and then when you go to bed, you're also smoking and kind of like?

Physician: Do you have any questions or any other concerns?

Physician: So knowing your knowledge of smoking and knowing what triggers you and the fact that you are smoking continuously throughout the day, so it's not like there's a certain place that stimulates you. Is that correct?

Physician: So now we can actually form a plan together as to how you're going to go about quitting smoking. So the first thing that's a really good idea is to actually pick a date. So it could be an upcoming birthday, or it could be any day that you see suitable. Do you have anything in mind in particular?

Physician: So why don't we pick a date in two weeks from now? So two weeks from today, we'll say that's your quit date.

Physician: Does that sound like something you would be able to do?

Physician: And do you have any other options?

Physician: So it's actually in a pill form, so it's actually very easy for you to take. Are you able to swallow pills?

Physician: Does that sound, you know?

Physician: So we can definitely discuss that and going about applying for the Pfizer program. Okay. The other thing that patients sometimes are offered is the option to have a contract and a calendar. Do those sound like things that you'd be interested in doing?

Physician: Does that sound good?

Physician: So from everything that we've discussed, I just want to make sure that I've said things clearly and that I haven't misspoke. Would you be able to repeat back the plan that we've come up with?

Physician: So just kind of do you have any questions in the end, or is this any other concerns?

Physician: Does that sound like a good idea?