Physician: What is generally done during the pregnancy in terms of beliefs that are thought to be good for the baby, to keep the baby healthy?

Patient: Yeah. We have several options. Like I say, some friends take some medicine before pregnancy to help the wounds and everything, which I didn't. But another option is when you have some sign of miscarriage or something, then you can drink some kind of medicine or tea. But what I'm doing now is I put on some girdles, two kind of band-aid thing, to tighten up my belly to prevent my fetus getting fatter.

Physician: Okay. So it's going to help the baby's getting, not getting, but it's kind of smaller, instead of the chubby baby. And at the same time, it's going to prevent my belly is not too huge, so it's going to maintain my body figure.

Patient: Mm-hmm.

Physician: Okay. So you don't want to get, in your culture, too big, and you want to keep the baby size smaller when you have the baby.

...

Physician: I can completely understand that you don't want to put chemicals in your body with your belief system and whatnot during the pregnancy.

Patient: But you mentioned about some, like, treatment to prevent this progression of whatever disease.

...

Physician: I know that's not the ideal situation for you. Do you have any concerns about sitting in the dental chair for a long period of time?

Patient: I don't have problem, but I still worry about my baby. I mean, if I have only one spot has some bleeding, can you just do the deep cleaning only that spot, whatever, one fourth quadrant, instead of four, then I can just visit one, one time.

...

Physician: Could you just tell me what you think that I'm telling you, just so we're both on the same page?

Patient: Mm-hmm. Yeah, as long as you have a strong scientific evidence it's not going to affect the fetus, then, yeah, I think I'm going to consider to take maybe.

Physician: Mm-hmm.

Patient: Yeah.

Physician: Okay.

Patient: My confidence level is reaching to the highest.