Physician: Okay. Are you feeling any pain with that bleeding?

Physician: Is that the only time that it happens when you're brushing your teeth or you're flossing?

Physician: About 20 weeks? 

Physician: How long is this bleeding, gums? How long have they been going on?

Physician: A couple of weeks? 

Physician: Okay. Sometimes there's a correlation during your second trimester, which you're just starting, between gingivitis and pregnancy. So sometimes this gum disease is brought on by some hormonal changes that are going on in your body.

Physician: You take the vitamin only? Mm-hmm. And this tea, is it commonly done in your culture, in your Korean, correct?

Physician: Okay. What is generally done during the pregnancy in terms of beliefs that are thought to be good for the baby, to keep the baby healthy?

Physician: So it's going to help the baby's getting, not getting, but it's kind of smaller, instead of the chubby baby. And at the same time, it's going to prevent my belly is not too huge, so it's going to maintain my body figure.

Physician: Okay. Are you doing anything else to alleviate the gum problems, the soreness that you're having from that? Are you putting any medications in your mouth?

Physician: You don't want to put any chemicals in your body. 

Physician: Some sort of problem to the baby.

Physician: You don't want to put any chemicals in your body with your belief system and whatnot during the pregnancy. But I think if we weigh the risks and benefits, I think it's less risky for the baby, with the research that we know about, to have some anesthetic if you need a deep cleaning, have some anesthetic put in your mouth, and have the cleaning done to decrease the amount of gingivitis in your mouth.

Physician: Do you have any other concerns or problems with the treatment that we're going to be giving?

Physician: That means four different times that you would get anesthesia.

Physician: I know that's not the ideal situation for you. Do you have any concerns about sitting in the dental chair for a long period of time?

Physician: But it sounds like you're going to need at least one from what you've been saying in your past history. Do you have any concerns about stressing the baby while you're in the chair? Do you have any anxiety when you're sitting in the dental chair or trouble sitting through a procedure?

Physician: We'll make you nice and comfortable, and we'll give you the anesthesia. We'll do the cleaning, and the anesthesia should wear off within three or four hours. 

Physician: Do you have some scientific evidence it's safe?

Physician: So do you understand everything that I'm telling you about? Could you just tell me what you think that I'm telling you, just so we're both on the same page?

Physician: Generally, who do you consult with for your health decisions? Do you have someone, like, are you married? Do you have any family members other than your husband?

Physician: Now, I just want to ask you, in the past have you or do you currently smoke or drink any alcoholic beverages?

Physician: You do not at all? Okay. You haven't used any illicit drugs such as marijuana or cocaine?

Physician: Anything else other than that? 

Physician: So do you have any other questions for me today?

Physician: Sure. So I'm just going to tell you what our overall plan is. What we're going to do is we'll, I think we have time now, we're going to do a complete periodontal exam on you.

Physician: At that time, we'll be able to tell exactly how many visits you need to come in for.

Physician: Do you have any other questions for me?