Here are the questions used by the physician:

Physician: How are you doing today?

Physician: What brings you into the dental clinic today?

Physician: Are you feeling any pain with that bleeding?

Physician: Is that the only time that it happens when you're brushing your teeth or you're flossing?

Physician: How far along are you?

Physician: And you're how old?

Physician: How long is this bleeding, gums? How long have they been going on?

Physician: Do you have any significant medical problems right now?

Physician: Nothing you know of? No history of diabetes, high blood pressure, cancer, anything like that?

Physician: Are you taking any medications, whether prescription or herbal or alternative medications?

Physician: What is generally done during the pregnancy in terms of beliefs that are thought to be good for the baby, to keep the baby healthy?

Physician: How often are you generally brushing and flossing?

Physician: Are you flossing?

Physician: Are you doing anything else to alleviate the gum problems, the soreness that you're having from that? Are you putting any medications in your mouth?

Physician: Have you ever had that done before?

Physician: Was that the last time that you went to the dentist?

Physician: And how was your experience?

Physician: And how did the deep cleaning work out for you? Did they see any improvement?

Physician: Do you have any other concerns or problems with the treatment that we're going to be giving?

Physician: Do you have any concerns about sitting in the dental chair for a long period of time?

Physician: Do you have any anxiety when you're sitting in the dental chair or trouble sitting through a procedure?

Physician: Do you have any concerns about stressing the baby while you're in the chair?

Physician: Generally, who do you consult with for your health decisions? Do you have someone, like, are you married? Do you have any family members other than your husband?

Physician: Now, I just want to ask you, in the past have you or do you currently smoke or drink any alcoholic beverages?

Physician: You do not at all? Okay. You haven't used any illicit drugs such as marijuana or cocaine?

Physician: Anything else other than that?

Physician: So do you have any other questions for me today?

Physician: Do you have any other questions for me?