Physician: "So what makes you think it's going to work this time around?"

Patient: "Well, that's the thing. I'm not sure, but my father got diagnosed with lung cancer, and he and my mother were able to stop. They tried a new treatment, so I want to try that as well."

Physician: "Okay. So that's motivational to you in terms of your parents were able to do it, so hopefully you'll be able to follow suit with them."

Physician: "So now we can actually form a plan together as to how you're going to go about quitting smoking. So the first thing that's a really good idea is to actually pick a date. So it could be an upcoming birthday, or it could be any day that you see suitable. Do you have anything in mind in particular?"

Patient: "Well, I'm ready to stop any time, but I don't know. I wanted to ask your recommendation about that."

Physician: "So it's kind of like you're not reminding yourself of your temptation to smoke. Does that sound like something you would be able to do?"

Patient: "Yeah, that sounds like a good idea. I didn't think about that before."

Physician: "So why don't we pick a date in two weeks from now? So two weeks from today, we'll say that's your quit date."

Patient: "Sure."

Physician: "So do you think that would be possible to kind of just remove yourself from situations?"

Patient: "I'll definitely make every effort to do that because I really want to stop now."

Physician: "Yeah. That's good. And you have valid motivation, I mean, considering your father's history."

Patient: "Exactly."

Physician: "Do those sound like things that you'd be interested in doing?"

Patient: "Yeah, I could do them. The calendar sounds like a really good idea."

Physician: "Okay. So from everything that we've discussed, I just want to make sure that I've said things clearly and that I haven't misspoke. Would you be able to repeat back the plan that we've come up with?"

Patient: "Okay. So I'm picking a date, which is two weeks from today, to be my last day of smoking. And before that day, I'm going to try to remove anything that reminds me of smoking, you know, ashtrays and cigarettes and try to wash my sheets and clean up my car and things like that. And we're going to try this drug, the Shantix, which I can get through Pfizer, so we have to do some paperwork for that. And also I'm going to tell my family and my friends that I'm going to try to quit smoking now and try to avoid friends who smoke at places where I normally smoke. And I'll sign a contract and have a calendar to remind me of my commitment."