Physician: "Sorry to hear about that."

Physician: "I'm sure it has been difficult on you and your family."

Physician: "Sorry about that. Have you considered going back to school or finishing up your education?"

Physician: "So it's probably been tough on you in terms of your father's health history and also school."

Physician: "It keeps you busy, right?"

Physician: "Okay. So later on when we discuss different treatment options to help you quit smoking, that's one thing we can discuss is your financial situation, and we can definitely take that into account."

Physician: "That is very difficult. It's very difficult to give up a habit that you've had for quite a number of years."

Physician: "So it's kind of like you're not reminding yourself of your temptation to smoke. Does that sound like something you would be able to do?"

Physician: "She's a good mom."

Physician: "Yeah. That's good. And you have valid motivation, I mean, considering your father's history."

Physician: "Luckily, considering the financial hardships that you're facing right now, Pfizer actually has a program where they can actually sponsor the prescription for you."

Physician: "Seems like everything's kind of fitting into place."

Physician: "Yeah. Sounds good. Any questions? Any other concerns?"

Physician: "So we can definitely discuss that and going about applying for the Pfizer program."

Physician: "Does that sound, you know?"

Physician: "So we can definitely discuss that with Dr. Lelko when she comes in, and we can actually sign the contract today."

Physician: "And it'll serve as your own personal motivation. Does that sound good?"

Physician: "Okay. Excellent. So just kind of do you have any questions in the end, or is this any other concerns?"

Physician: "You know, that's a practical thought because not all the therapies will work for everyone. But I think it's a really good idea. Studies have actually shown that Shantix is a very effective therapy. But we can definitely try out the Shantix, see how it works for about a month. And then if that doesn't work, we'll try the different therapy options."

Physician: "Okay. You mentioned also the concern about weight gain. And I think the fact that you'll be, it sounds like you may be interested in increasing your exercise activity."

Physician: "Yes. So I think that'll actually help alleviate your worries about weight gain in terms of quitting smoking."

Physician: "Okay. So we'll definitely follow up with you. And if you have any questions before the follow-up visit after about three weeks, then you can definitely come in or you can call. So don't feel afraid. We're in this with you 100%. So we're here to support you if you have any questions or anything. So we'll schedule a follow-up visit with Dr. Lelko when she comes in. So we look forward to seeing you in about three weeks."