Physician: "Can I ask you why you take that?"

Patient: "Well, I read that it can help with the mood, and lately I haven't been feeling, you know, in high spirits, so I decided to try that."

Physician: "Is there a particular reason?"

Patient: "Well, different reasons, but lately it's because my father was diagnosed with lung cancer and..."

Physician: "Sorry to hear about that."

Physician: "So that's motivational to you in terms of your parents were able to do it, so hopefully you'll be able to follow suit with them."

Patient: "That's what I hope, yeah."

Physician: "So who really serves as your social support? Would you say it's your parents, or do you have friends in the area?"

Patient: "Well, it's mostly my parents since I'm at home. I don't really have that many friends in the area since most of my friends are out of state where I went to school."

Physician: "So you mentioned your parents had insurance and they used medication. What do they use to quit smoking?"

Patient: "Well, they use, I think it's a new drug. It's called Shantix or something like that."

Physician: "Is there anything in particular that triggers you to start smoking?"

Patient: "For me now, it's mostly stress. It used to be when I was with other people, but now it's just mostly stress."

Physician: "So the other thing you mentioned is that you live attached to your parents' house."

Patient: "That's right."

Physician: "And they mainly serve as your social support. So it's a really good idea to get their support in your efforts. So tell them that you're going to quit smoking, and I'm sure they'll support you considering they themselves quit smoking."

Patient: "My mom has been on my case since she quit."

Physician: "She's a good mom."

Patient: "So I'm sure she'll be happy to hear that."

Physician: "So do you think that would be possible to kind of just remove yourself from situations?"

Patient: "I'll definitely make every effort to do that because I really want to stop now."

Physician: "Yeah. That's good. And you have valid motivation, I mean, considering your father's history."

Patient: "Exactly."