Physician: "Okay. Nice to meet you. I'm a second-year medical student. I understand you've come in today because you're interested in quitting smoking. Is that correct?"

Physician: "All right. If anything comes up, you can just stop me or just remember for later. Sound good?"

Physician: "Sorry to hear about that."

Physician: "So that's motivational to you in terms of your parents were able to do it, so hopefully you'll be able to follow suit with them."

Physician: "It keeps you busy, right?"

Physician: "Okay. So later on when we discuss different treatment options to help you quit smoking, that's one thing we can discuss is your financial situation, and we can definitely take that into account."

Physician: "Sound good?"

Physician: "Okay. All right. Good. So things that I learned about you in terms of your history would be you have no remarkable medical history."

Physician: "Right."

Physician: "Your father was unfortunately diagnosed with lung cancer. So you are taking the vitamin D to improve your mood."

Physician: "Right."

Physician: "And you currently are a medical technician, but you have no medical insurance."

Physician: "Right."

Physician: "Okay. So we could definitely find a feasible option in terms of treatment. Do you have any questions at this time or any other concerns you've thought of?"

Physician: "Okay. So you mentioned your parents had insurance and they used medication. What do they use to quit smoking?"

Physician: "Okay. All right. So we can definitely discuss that later on. Okay. So in terms of, I'm going to ask you questions about your own knowledge of smoking. So do you know the effects of smoking on your body and what it can do potentially?"

Physician: "Okay. So it sounds like you have a pretty good base of knowledge. Smoking can increase your risk of developing lung disease and lung cancer. It can also contribute to heart disease as well. Other things in terms of your appearance, it can actually discolor nails. It can affect hair. I don't think that will be a problem though. And it can also affect the teeth as well. So different effects all over. Is there anything in particular that triggers you to start smoking?"

Physician: "Okay. And do you smoke throughout the day, or is it something you're just smoking while you're driving in your car or while you're at home? Is there like a particular trigger for you?"

Physician: "Okay. So would you say you kind of wake up and you smoke, and then when you go to bed, you're also smoking and kind of like?"

Physician: "Okay. All right. Do you have any questions or any other concerns?"

Physician: "Okay. So knowing your knowledge of smoking and knowing what triggers you and the fact that you are smoking continuously throughout the day, so it's not like there's a certain place that stimulates you. Is that correct?"

Physician: "Okay. So now we can actually form a plan together as to how you're going to go about quitting smoking. So the first thing that's a really good idea is to actually pick a date. So it could be an upcoming birthday, or it could be any day that you see suitable. Do you have anything in mind in particular?"

Physician: "Okay."

Physician: "Yeah, and I think the fact last two times you tried to quit were you went cold turkey."

Physician: "That is very difficult. It's very difficult to give up a habit that you've had for quite a number of years. So I would suggest giving yourself like a week or two and picking a day."

Physician: "Okay."

Physician: "It could be any day of the week, and you pick that day and you say to yourself, the day before you're going to clear your house and clear your car of anything that reminds you of smoking. So ashtrays, cigarettes, matches. If you smoke in a particular jacket or clothing, it's a good idea to wash those things to prepare yourself."

Physician: "That's a good idea."

Physician: "So it's kind of like you're not reminding yourself of your temptation to smoke. Does that sound like something you would be able to do?"

Physician: "Okay. So why don't we pick a date in two weeks from now? So two weeks from today, we'll say that's your quit date."

Physician: "Sure."

Physician: "And we can definitely give you a calendar so it will be easy to track."

Physician: "Okay, that will help."

Physician: "So the day before you want to clear everything. Just throw everything away, ashtrays, cigarettes, everything I had mentioned. And you mentioned you're smoking from the morning until the time you're going to sleep, so your sheets probably absorb that smell. So it's probably a good idea to wash bed sheets and kind of make yourself resistant to temptation."

Physician: "Okay."

Physician: "The other thing you mentioned is that you live attached to your parents' house."

Physician: "That's right."

Physician: "And they mainly serve as your social support. So it's a really good idea to get their support in your efforts. So tell them that you're going to quit smoking, and I'm sure they'll support you considering they themselves quit smoking."

Physician: "She's a good mom."

Physician: "Okay. You also want to make sure you tell your friends. So tell any friends that do smoke not to smoke around you if possible. Or if you need to, just try avoiding situations which you'll end up having being around the smell of smoke or being around people that are smoking."

Physician: "Right."

Physician: "Because it would be more tempted, and it will be harder for you. So do you think that would be possible to kind of just remove yourself from situations?"

Physician: "Yeah. That's good. And you have valid motivation, I mean, considering your father's history."

Physician: "Exactly."

Physician: "So I think it'll be successful this time around. And then the other thing is that there are certain behaviors that you can actually change. For example, when you have a temptation to smoke, carry around gum with you or hard candy so you can put that in your mouth. So that'll help you, actually."

Physician: "Okay."

Physician: "Other things that have been shown to help people quit smoking is improvements in diet and exercising. So keeping your mind busy with other activities is really important. And that would be where exercising comes into play. And that would also help you with your initial goal. You said you're concerned about not getting exercise in the beginning."

Physician: "Right."

Physician: "So you would essentially kill two birds with one stone by exercising and making your mind busy with that. The other thing is eating a lot of fruits and vegetables, so improving your diet, and also reducing caffeine intake. So reducing coffee would be a really good idea in terms of reducing cravings."

Physician: "It's not like you have to give it up right away because I'm sure it probably helps you wake up in the morning and start the day."

Physician: "Right."

Physician: "So, that's fine."

Physician: "Okay."

Physician: "And then in terms of the ñ there are numerous medications. So you have nicotine gum, nicotine inhalers, patches. There are also recently medications, for example, Zyban or Chantix. You mentioned before that your parents were successful quitters with Chantix."

Physician: "Right."

Physician: "Is that something that you're considering, or do you have any other options?"

Physician: "Okay. Luckily, considering the financial hardships that you're facing right now, Pfizer actually has a program where they can actually sponsor the prescription for you. So they'll pay everything. They'll take into consideration your salary and the fact that you don't have insurance, and they'll pay for your prescription, and all you have to do is pick it up."

Physician: "That sounds good."

Physician: "Sound good?"

Physician: "Right."

Physician: "Seems like everything's kind of fitting into place."

Physician: "Yeah. Sounds good. Any questions? Any other concerns?"

Physician: "Okay."

Physician: "So it's actually in a pill form, so it's actually very easy for you to take. Are you able to swallow pills?"

Physician: "Oh, yes."

Physician: "You mentioned vitamin D before."

Physician: "Yeah, that would be fine."

Physician: "Okay. What it does is it actually binds to the places where nicotine would bind in your brain, and it prevents nicotine from binding. So it kind of fulfills your cravings without you actually smoking."

Physician: "Ah, I see. Okay."

Physician: "Does that sound, you know?"

Physician: "That sounds good. Okay. Yeah, I want to try it."

Physician: "So we can definitely discuss that and going about applying for the Pfizer program. Okay. The other thing that patients sometimes are offered is the option to have a contract and a calendar. So what a calendar allows you to do is it allows you to keep a log of how you're doing, and you can also, like some patients, put stars on days. It makes them feel good about themselves, and it essentially tells us how you're doing with your attempt to quit smoking and what are your weaknesses. So, like, were you hanging out with friends that were smoking, and on a given day you actually ended up smoking that day? So you can take notes on the calendar, and it also serves as a motivation to yourself. So if you keep it in your car, if you keep it near your bedside or on your refrigerator, you'll know that, okay, my goal is to quit smoking, and this is a calendar that's keeping track of how I'm doing. The other option also is a contract. So what a contract essentially will do is it emphasizes that this is a joint effort between us and you and that you're not in this alone, and it kind of solidifies your goal to quit smoking."

Physician: "Okay."

Physician: "Do those sound like things that you'd be interested in doing?"

Physician: "Yeah, I could do them. The calendar sounds like a really good idea."

Physician: "Okay, good. So we can definitely discuss that with Dr. Lelko when she comes in, and we can actually sign the contract today. And when you receive the contract and the calendar, just try to put them in places where you tend to smoke. So you mentioned in your bedroom, so put it around your bed. Also show your mom and show your dad because it'll make it believable for them that you're actually in this for good for the long term."

Physician: "Okay."

Physician: "And it'll serve as your own personal motivation. Does that sound good?"

Physician: "Sounds good."

Physician: "Okay. So from everything that we've discussed, I just want to make sure that I've said things clearly and that I haven't misspoke. Would you be able to repeat back the plan that we've come up with?"

Physician: "Good."

Physician: "Okay. Excellent. So just kind of do you have any questions in the end, or is this any other concerns?"

Physician: "You know, that's a practical thought because not all the therapies will work for everyone. But I think it's a really good idea. Studies have actually shown that Shantix is a very effective therapy. But we can definitely try out the Shantix, see how it works for about a month. And then if that doesn't work, we'll try the different therapy options."

Physician: "Okay."

Physician: "Does that sound like a good idea?"

Physician: "Okay, I really hope it works."

Physician: "Okay. You mentioned also the concern about weight gain. And I think the fact that you'll be, it sounds like you may be interested in increasing your exercise activity."

Physician: "Yes. So I think that'll actually help alleviate your worries about weight gain in terms of quitting smoking."

Physician: "I hope so."

Physician: "Okay. So we'll definitely follow up with you. And if you have any questions before the follow-up visit after about three weeks, then you can definitely come in or you can call. So don't feel afraid. We're in this with you 100%. So we're here to support you if you have any questions or anything. So we'll schedule a follow-up visit with Dr. Lelko when she comes in. So we look forward to seeing you in about three weeks."

Physician: "Okay. Thank you."

Physician: "It was nice meeting you."

Physician: "Good to meet you too."